 Adewale Momoh, Akure The Deputy Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Hon Ogundeji Iroju has been impeached.
Iroju was impeached following a parliamentary resolution where 20 of the 26 lawmakers were said to have signed the resolution.
Following the removal of the former Deputy Speaker, the lawmaker representing Odigbo Constituency 2, Aderoboye Samuel was elected as the new Deputy Speaker of the Assembly.
The motion for the removal of Iroju was moved by Tomide Akinrogunde following allegations of gross misconduct which the lawmakers said was inimical to the progress of the Assembly.
Aderoboye, who was the Deputy Speaker of the House during the fourth Assembly, in his acceptance speech pledged to work with other stakeholders.
Following the election of a new Deputy Speaker, the Assembly also witnessed major shakeups with the lawmaker representing Owo Constituency 1, Hon. Oluwole Ogunmolasuyi, appointed as the new Majority leader while Hon. Akingbaso Festus, representing Idanre State Constituency is the new Minority Leader and Hon. Taofeeq Mohammed is the new Chief Whip of the House.
Meanwhile, a panel to investigate allegation of gross misconduct against Iroju has been inaugurated.  Hon. Bako Kasim Alfa has resigned his position as the Deputy Speaker of the Niger state House of Assembly. His resignation was announced during the plenary of the state lawmakers on Thursday. His notice of resignation was contained in a letter submitted to the Speaker and read n the floor of… July 23, 2020 In "Politics" Nine lawmakers kick lAgboola: I'm not bothered There was shouting match among lawmakers of the Ondo State House of Assembly yesterday over the move to impeach the embattled deputy governor of the state, Hon. Agboola Ajayi. During the plenary, 14 out of the 26 lawmakers signed the impeachment notice against… July 8, 2020 In "News" An Akure High Court on Friday quashed the suspension of four members of the Ondo State House of Assembly who were suspended by the leadership of the House for unparliamentary acts. The affected lawmakers were the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Ogundeji Iroju, the only woman in the House, Mrs. Favour Tomomowo,… August 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"