Despite playing with Academies and lower league sides, Nigeria Professional Football League top guns, Plateau United and Abia Warriors, have said the kind of oppositions at the ongoing Governor Ikpeazu Pre-season Championships are good enough to help their preparation for the upcoming league season.  The two sides played out a goalless draw on Monday while achieving victories in other games played against the non league sides.  Speaking with our correspondent, Plateau United assistant coach, Mauris Longmiap, said they are still searching for the right combo and was happy with the opportunity offered by the competition.  “Yes, we’ve been applying squad rotation policy because we are still looking for the right combination of players”, Longmiap said after the CAF champions League contestants pulled off a 3-1 win against Ngwa Utd in their third match.  “That’s why we have rotating our squad and of course, we want to give every player opportunity to express himself for us to see what he has. “And this, I must say, has been working out well for us. “We are very, very ready for the continental. That’s why we came here (Aba, the venue of the pre season).   Nigeria Professional Football League side, Plateau United, has beaten over four clubs to the signature of highlyrated striker, Sunday Adetunji.   The former Abia Warriors star signed the dotted lines at the weekend after strong negotiation involving the player, his agent and the club’s management. It would be recalled that… August 31, 2020 In "Sports" A & A FC of Calabar and Abia Comets of Umuahia will on Sunday kickoff the 2020 edition of the Governor Okezie Ikpeazu Preseason Tournament taking place at the Aba Township Stadium.   In a draw conducted on Friday, eight-time Nigeria Professional Football League champions, Enyimba top group A comprising… November 15, 2020 In "Sports" •Club boss happy with team     Port Harcourt Despite the elimination of his club, the chairman of giant killer of the Governor Nyedom Wike Pre-Season Championships, Ottasolo FC, Gabriel Davies, has applauded his team for the yeoman's job done at the tournament.   According to the retired footballer, his… November 15, 2020 In "Sports"