 Fast growing showbiz company, Tycoon Entertainment has employed the services of Joey Emmanuel as the official back up singer for its label artist, Evans Oghenekaro Ambakaderemo better known as ‘Evih’ to further position him in the entertainment industry at large.
The newly signed backup singer, Emmanuel is a multi-talented live band expert and signed a long-term deal by the entertainment company to work hand in glove with Evih whose style of music is distinctive.
Speaking on joining the Tycoon family, an excited Emmanuel, however, expressed gratitude towards the label and also said working with the artist will help enhance their singing and performing skills respectively.
It is, however, important to note that Evih is a prolific songwriter, vocalist and an amazing performer with well over 20 songs. The Delta-born artiste and graduate of Business Administration from the University of Benin started music at a very tender age and his love for good music has kept him growing this far.  The Nigerian entertainment space is about to receive a major boost as Evoke Musik, a new entertainment company based in the US with its subsidiary in Lagos Nigeria, signs on its flagship artiste, "Jethro Lion" (Jethro Chinweotito Abara) a Raggae/Dancehall act. Speaking during the unveiling of the artiste recently in… October 17, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Aina Oluwajoba Emmanuel professionally known as Jobaa has just signed a juicy record deal with renowned U.K based record label, JustJoJo Entertainment. Jobaa is a 20-year-old contemporary Afro-pop recording and performing artiste from Ekiti State in Nigeria. The Lagos and London based artiste developed a keen interest in music at… August 1, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" .Releases New Single Aina Oluwajoba Emmanuel professionally known as Jobaa has just signed a juicy record deal with renowned U.K based record label, JustJoJo Entertainment. Jobaa is a 20-year-old contemporary Afro-pop recording and performing artiste from Ekiti State in Nigeria. The Lagos and London based artiste developed a keen… July 31, 2020 In "News"