Eight months after they were ordered to work from home to avert the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state, the Lagos State government yesterday directed workers on Salary Grade Levels 1 – 12 to resume work from tomorrow (Monday).  Following the outbreak of the deadly virus, which claimed many lives, including notable personalities in the state, Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu had directed that all public servants on the affect salary levels, to work from home since March.  But in a circular, with Ref. No: CIR/HOS/20/Vol.1/115 dated October20, 2020 and signed by the state’s Head of Service, Mr Hakeem Muri- Okunola, the state government expects all the workers to resume tomorrow.  Meanwhile, Governor Sanwo- Olu is expected to flag-off the Eti-Osa-Lekki-Epe Expressway today Speaking during an inspection of the road on Saturday, the Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Engineer Aramide Adeyoye, who disclosed this, said that despite the economic recession, dwindling financial resources occasioned by the COVID 19 pandemic and the most recent unwarranted violence unleashed on government infrastructure, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu remains focused on promoting economic prosperity through the provision of sustainable road infrastructure throughout the state.  Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has directed all Civil Servants from grade levels 1-12 to resume work from Tuesday, September 1. Senator Diri gave the directive on Monday during a meeting with the state's COVID-19 Taskforce in Government House, Yenagoa. The governor had on March 26 asked those category… August 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has directed all civil servants from grade levels 1-12 to resume work from Tuesday, September 1. Diri gave the directive yesterday during a meeting with the state's COVID-19 Taskforce in Government House, Yenagoa.   The governor had on March 26 asked those category of… August 25, 2020 In "News" Ekiti State government has directed workers on Grade Levels 02 to 07 in the State Public Service to resume work months after compliance with the Stay-at-Home Order which formed part of preventive methods stipulated by government in tackling spread of COVID- 19 since March 23, 2020. The state government in… October 29, 2020 In "News"