Suspected kidnappers yesterday abducted the Chairman of Esan Central Local Government Area, Prof. Waziri Edokpa and 14 passengers of a popular transporter in Edo State. Both Edokpa and the passengers were kidnapped in the early hours of the day, along the Benin-Auchi- Abuja expressway. Aside the abduction of the 14 passengers aboard the Abuja-bound commercial bus from Benin, the driver of the bus was reportedly killed by the kidnappers in the pro-cess. While the council boss was abducted along Ekpoma end of the single lane route, the kidnappers had, after killing the bus driver, hijacked the bus and took all the occupants to an unknown destination. As at the time of this report, the whereabouts of all the kidnapped victims was yet to be ascertained. Investigations showed that activities of armed men terrorising residents of Benin City and its environs have been shifted to major expressways linking the state. The Benin-Auchi road and that of Lagos-Ore-Benin road are worst hit in the past one week. However, as at the time of this report, all the seven local government council chairmen from Edo south senatorial district were said to have met behind closed door with the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr Johnson Babatunde Kokumo, on the security situation in the area. The state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Johnson Kokumo said the security meeting was aimed at finding a lasting solution to the current increase in crime rate in the state. He assured that the command would do everything possible to stem the tide of armed robberies, kidnappings and other vices in parts of the state.  *As kidnappers release former magistrate Monday evening Tunde Sulaiman The widow of Zakawanu Garuba, a former Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, has been released by her captors. Hassana Garuba is currently back with her family members in Auchi after her abductors released her not too long ago.… July 20, 2020 In "Top Stories" Cajetan Mmuta, Benin A ghastly motor accident along Ahor Bypass in Uhinmwode Local Government Area of Edo State Tuesday claimed four lives and left five others injured. New Telegraph learnt that the fatal crash happened at about 7:22am. It involved a 14-seater commercial bus, which was headed from Lagos to… October 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ·       Obaseki expresses shock, tasks police to rescue victims It was double misfortune for the family of the former Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly, Zakawanu Garuba after the former legislator died on Saturday morning and his widow, Hasana was kidnapped on the way to bury her late husband. According… July 18, 2020 In "News"