…orders arrest of son, Faisal A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, yesterday resumed the trial of a former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, in his absence. The trial judge, Justice Okon Abang, had given the prosecution the nod to continue the trial in his absence after the defendant had consistently absent himself from court. His absence had made the court to make an order yesterday remanding his surety, Senator Ali Ndume in prison. The court had equally asked the prosecution to present more evidence against Maina. Maina was facing a 12-count money laundering charge alongside a firm, Common Input Properties & Investment Limited. The prosecution alleged that he used the account of the firm to launder funds to the tune of about N2 billion, part of which he used to acquire landed properties in Abuja. The court had in a ruling on Monday, remanded the senator representing Borno South, Ali Ndume, who stood surety for the former pension reform boss, in custody, following his inability to explain the whereabouts of the defendant. It held that Ndume should remain in detention pending when his Abuja property would be sold to raise the N500 million bail bond on Maina’s head.   A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday ordered the arrest of former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, over his continued absence from his on-going trial on money laundering charges. The trial judge, Justice Okon Abang, in a ruling, revoked the bail it earlier granted… November 19, 2020 In "News" Senator Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South) has declared his intention to stand as surety for the embattled Chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, who is facing trial over his alleged involvement in money laundering. Counsel to Maina, Chief J. K Gadzama (SAN) made the disclosure at… June 24, 2020 In "News" The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday gave Senator Ali Ndume 21-day ultimatum to produce the former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reformed Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, who is standing trial before the court over allegation bothering on money laundering to the tune N2 billion The decision of the… October 20, 2020 In "News"