…as motorcyclists, prison officials clash Hoodlums yesterday burnt a police station and vandalised another one at the Agodi Gate area of Ibadan, Oyo State. This followed a clash between officers of the Nigerian Correctional Service, formerly Nigerian Prisons Service, and commercial motorcyclists otherwise called Okada riders at the Agodi Gate Bus Stop, Ibadan. Several people were reportedly injured in the melee. Witnesses said violence erupted when some officers of the Correctional Service instructed the Okada riders plying the Iwo- Road and Bashorun-Akobo Road not to pack opposite the prison yard any longer. There were reported sporadic gunshots as residents scampered for safety New Telegraph learnt that the hoodlums set ablaze an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) stationed in the area. An unconfirmed report also claimed that some people were killed. Hoodlums, in their hundreds, were later seen moving to Yemetu Police Station with the intention of causing mayhem, but policemen foiled their plan. However, the hoodlums razed the Idi Ogungun Police Station at Gate, close to the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA). Smoke was still rising from the station at 5pm yesterday. They also vandalised and looted the Agodi Gate Police Station, a few metres away from the burnt station. Also, men of the state security outfit, Operation Burst, cordoned off the area. This led to gridlock in the axis. Hoodlums also seized the opportunity to harass motorists in a bid to extort money from them. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gbenga Fadeyi, said “no shot was fired by the police”. He said: “It is true that there was a clash but police officers and security men from sister agencies are on ground to ensure there is no breakdown of law and order. ”Our men were there to ensure peace reigns and avoid any breakdown of law and order. They did not shoot anybody as being peddled on the social media.” Fadeyi also confirmed that a police station was burnt. He said: “The hoodlums burnt the Idi Ogungun Police Station when there was a feud between the Correctional personnel and an Okada rider at Gate area.”  Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan Officers of the Nigerian Correctional Services (NCS), Tuesday , clashed with commercial motorcycle operators at Agodi Gate Bus Stop Ibadan leading to injuries being sustained by some people. According to some eyewitnesses, the clash erupted when some officers of NCS instructed the Okada riders plying the Iwo-… November 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Days after hoodlums under the disguise of #EndSARS protesters set ablaze four police stations in different locations in Ebonyi State, the process of rebuilding them has begun. That was followed with the hunting for the criminals and sacking of some appointees following the civil disturbances. UCHENNA INYA reports from Abakaliki… October 29, 2020 In "News" Makinde sues for peace   Thugs yesterday attacked police stations, brutalised and later burnt alive two policemen at Iwo Road in Ibadan, Oyo State. It took the intervention of Governor Seyi Makinde and his security convoy that prevented the Idi Ape Testing Ground Police Division from being burnt. Several sporadic… October 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"