Vietnam based Nigerian fashion brand has lifted the veil
on their fall/winter collection titled “Adire Tuntun”.
According to the elegant creative director, Omaatu,
‘Adire Tuntún’ which simply means “New Adire” births a
dazzling array of ready to wear pieces and evening gowns,
with striking emerald and shadowy patterns.  Omaatu has a special place in her heart for African prints
and African fashion which she fuses into modern style, like
seen in this collection.  Highlighting the indigo-dyed pattern, originated in Nigeria,
which is the primary drive of the collection, its her way of
paying homage to the African culture, accentuating crosscultural
fashion.  The designer, Omatu, who believes her works should be
more popular than her personality said that the dresses are
comfortable and youthful yet very stylish.  Imaatu, whose fashion brand is formerly known as Fulani,
started her fashion works in Vietnam and launched in 2003.
The designer and creative director who prefers to be called
by her first name, Omatu, celebrates women globally and
empowers them through her creations to emphasize their
feminine charms.  Her designs radiates self-confidence through colorful fabrics,
with great importance to unique cuts that do not limit
the wear ability of each piece.   As the Nigerian fashion industry continues to make strides in the local, as well as the global scene, a fashion outfit, The Collections Merchant Brand, is spreading its tentacles across the globe. Championed by Akpu Tessy Oluchi, TCM Brand was inspired to create a product that serves as a leading… July 26, 2020 In "Body & Soul" N ollywood actress, Ebube Nwagbo have continued to push her passion for fashion to the next level. Her fashion line which was launched two years ago, PushedUpByEb has a new collection for ladies who to look comfortable and chic. To model the collection, Ebube signed up her sexy diva friends… June 21, 2020 In "Body & Soul" “If Africans today are questioning the paradigms for happiness, tell them to refer to the history of their family, to interrogate them what, why and how they did and ask them to look at their own capacity to reduplicate and put in motion the potential logged in… August 26, 2020 In "Business"