Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, has called up one of the standby players for the Africa Cup of Nations double header qualifier against Sierra Leone, Paul Onuachu, as a replacement for the injured Moses Simon.  Simon got injured over the weekend in his club, Nantes’ 3-0 defeat against Paris Saint- Germain in a French elite division clash, the 25-year-old was replaced by Kader Bamba after 25 minutes having suffered what looked like a groin injury. Simon will now remain in France during the international window for further treatments as he is expected to be out of action for at least three weeks.  In a release by the Nigeria Football Federation on their Twitter handle, it was revealed that Onuachu has been called up as a replacement for the star.  Onuachu has been in an imperative form since the start of the season for Genk in the Belgian pro league, scoring nine goals in his last 10 games.  Onuachu was part of Nigeria’s squad for last month’s friendlies against African champions Algeria and the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia. He was named as replacement for Napoli striker Victor Osimhen for the friendlies.  The Super Eagles will keep a date with the Leone Stars on Friday, November 13 at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City.   The Nigeria Football Federation has announced that Napoli striker, Victor Osimhen, has been excused from the Super Eagles international friendly games against Algeria and Tunisia scheduled for Austria on October 9 and 13.   According to a post on the NFF twitter handle, it was stated that: “@victorosimhen9 has been… October 4, 2020 In "Sports" Genk manager Hannes Wolf has confirmed Paul Onuachu will resume training on Friday after recovering from the coronavirus. Last week, the lanky forward tested positive for Covid-19 on his return from Nigeria to the Luminus Arena ahead of their friendly game against Eendracht Termien, which was subsequently cancelled. The Super… July 17, 2020 In "Sports" Uzoho, Ezenwa, others on standby NFF confirms Benin City for tie Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has recalled Napoli striker Victor Osimhen, Kaiser Chiefs goal keeper Daniel Akpeyi and midfielder Oghenekaro Etebo to his 24-man team for the 2022 African Cup of Nations Cup qualifying matches against the Leone Stars… October 30, 2020 In "Sports"