Wales’ manager Ryan Giggs has denied an allegation of assault made against him. The Wales manager has been arrested on suspicion of assaulting his girlfriend, several newspapers have reported. His representatives said he denies all allegations of assault made against him and is co-operating with the police, reports the BBC. Greater Manchester Police said a man, 46, had been arrested on suspicion of section 47 assault and section 39 common assault and bailed pending further inquiries. The Football Association of Wales (FAW) has cancelled a press conference planned for Tuesday where Giggs was due to announce his squad for upcoming international games. It said it was “aware of an alleged incident involving the men’s national team manager Ryan Giggs”. A statement released on behalf of Giggs said: “He is co-operating with the police and will continue to assist them with their ongoing investigation.” Greater Manchester Police said it was called to reports of a disturbance at an address in Worsley, Salford, just after 22:00 GMT on Sunday. It said a woman in her 30s “sustained minor injuries but did not require any treatment”.  Jonny Williams brought Wales’s goal drought to an end with his first international goal five minutes from time to give his side a 1-0 victory over Bulgaria in Sofia. The Charlton midfielder, who came off the bench with 18 minutes left, connected superbly with Neco Williams’s cross from the right to smash… October 15, 2020 In "Sports" Pakistani police on Sunday said they have arrested one of two suspects in the rape of a woman who was dragged from her car and attacked in front of her children after her car broke down on a desolate highway in central Punjab province. The police said the woman… September 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Lawyers agree on FSARS’ reform   Notwithstanding divergent views on the propriety of the ban placed on operations of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS ) by the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, lawyers have charted a new course on how to end acts of impunity by operatives of… October 12, 2020 In "Politics"