Amnesty International, Nigeria has vowed not to succumb to threats and intimidation from faceless groups who are uncomfortable with its operations in Nigeria. A largely unknown group, Centre for African Liberation and Socio-Economic Rights CALSER), had on Wednesday given Amnesty International a seven day ultimatum to vacate Nigeria or face dire consequences. CALSER was apparently angry with the global human rights watch organisation over its report on the Lekki Tollgate massacre. The group which accused Amnesty International of being a security threat in Nigeria warned that it would occupy Amnesty’s offices in Lagos and Abuja if it failed to quit at the expiration of the ultimatum. However, Amnesty said this would not be the first time it has been given an ultimatum to vacate Nigeria by faceless groups in the country. The human rights group said its offices have equally been invaded in the country. In a series of tweets, Amnesty also affirmed its position as a human rights organisation, which has no affiliation to any government, ideology, interests, political, religious or commercial groups. “We have been working on Nigeria since June 1967. Despite threats to our lives, through faceless organisations and sponsored protests, we will not stay silent. “In the face of efforts to evade responsibility or to smear our organisation, we will continue to raise our voices whenever and wherever we see injustice. “We will continue to call on the Nigerian government to use its authority and resources to investigate all allegations of human rights violations and abuses, including; rape, torture, arbitrary detentions and unlawful killings.Malicious threats will not deter us from continuing to speak against human rights violation and abuses by state and non-state actors.” It told the Federal Government and its security agencies, that they have a legal duty to ensure the protection of lives and properties of every person in the country.   International human rights group, Amnesty International, has been given seven days to leave Nigeria for peddling fake news which almost plunged the country into anarchy during and after the EndSARS protests.  The Centre for Africa Liberation and Socio-Economic Rights (CALSER) gave this ultimatum at a press conference on Wednesday in Abuja. … November 4, 2020 In "News" Some human rights groups have approached the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry and Restitution with pieces of evidence indicting several Nigerian celebrities and international non-governmental organisations for inciting violence through fake news.  According to the groups, these Nigerians and NGOs must be punished for their gross misinformation which triggered… November 3, 2020 In "News" Amnesty International, the all-knowing international non-governmental organization, is apparently experiencing the human equivalent of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) going by the way it is suffering an increase in hallucinating things that do not exist. It suddenly struck on the idea of accusing the Nigerian Army of sponsoring other NGOs against… November 5, 2020 In "News"