…says team lacks identity  Ex-international Moses Kpakor strongly believes Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr is not in charge of the team, insisting it is evident forces outside of the squad dictate to him.  Kpakor who was part of the Super Eagles squad to 1990 African Cup of Nations said the team’s 4-4 draw with Sierra Leone last Friday was not only a national embarrassment but a pointer to a deeper malaise in the squad.  He said Rohr’s reign hasn’t impacted positively on the team and there are indications he was being remoted by some individuals. The former BBC Lions of Gboko star said Eagles under the German lacks identify and it is shameful the coach hasn’t influenced the squad with his ideology.  “There are some people who have suggested that the coach is not in charge of the team and there are indications that support such insinuations,” he said. “After more than four years in charge, the team still doesn’t have a clear pattern of play.  Clemence Westerhof was here for about four years and changed the way we were playing football; he brought his style but this man has been here for more than that period of time and we can’t say this is his style. “Anywhere Pep Guardiola goes, the team plays his style.  The same thing for Jose Mourinho. Good coaches have their philosophies which they impact on their teams. But in this case, we don’t know Rohr’s style; maybe he hasn’t been in charge of the team, perhaps he doesn’t have absolute right over selections and even tactics.”  The Eagles confront the Leone Stars in the return leg of their 2022 AFCON qualifiers on Tuesday and Kpakor said it was time for redemption after surrendering a four goal lead in the first leg on Friday. He said the coach must also show he has match management skills.  ...reshuffles line up, drops three players   Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, has charged his players to put up more efforts when they take on the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia in another international friendly game on Tuesday in Austria.   The Eagles lost 1-0 to African champions, Algeria in their… October 13, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles head coach, Gernot Rohr, has applauded the new found form of Leon Balogun with his new Scottish side, Rangers. The defender has been in top form since joining Steven Gerrard led side at the start of the current campaign and Rohr has tipped him for a recall to… August 24, 2020 In "Sports" Former Julius Berger and Super Eagles striker, Victor Agali, has said players from the Nigeria Professional Football League NPFL are not good enough to compete for shirts with their counterparts from overseas in the senior national team. Agali who is now a scout for the Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr… July 22, 2020 In "Sports"