TheNasarawaStategovernment has lauded the Federal Governmentforcitingawasterecyclingplant inLafia, thestatecapital.  Commissioner for Environment and Natural Resources, Musa Abubakar, who disclosed this while briefing journalists after the state’s monthly sanitation exercise at the weekend, said construction work on the site would soon commence.  He disclosed that the waste recycling plant, which was capable of creating hundreds of job opportunities for youths and women, would be cited at Angwan Rere in Lafia.  The commissioner said the state government had donated a site for the project, adding that henceforth, wastes collected from the state would be taken to the plant for recycling into various products for both domestic and commercial purposes. Abubakar explained further that the citing of the plant would create jobs for the youth and serve as revenue generation for the state whenitbecomesoperational.  “As soon as the waste recycling plant is ready for operation, waste from the streets would be mopped up to the site for recycling to other products,”   The Federal Capital Territory (FCT ) on Thursday unveiled pick up trash and get paid initiative to residents in one of the Satellite communities of the territory. FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, who unveiled the Cash for Trash recycling hub in Nyanya area of the Abuja Municipal Area… August 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" …ratifies Nigeria's membership of Int'l Coffee Organisation   The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a memo on a bill to establish a Council for Traditional, Alternative and Complementary Medicine Practice in the country.   The Council, chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday also ratified Nigeria's membership of the International… October 22, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government says it’s building numbers of recycling plants that would take used plastics, wash and make all kinds of things out of them. The Minister of Environment, Dr. Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar, disclosed this while on a working visit to the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) headquarters, in Lekki Lagos.… September 29, 2020 In "Business"