Former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, has stated how important it is for the public to always support their political leaders with good words of advice to enable them deliver better governance to the people.  Obi said this at St Barnabas Anglican Church, Nimo, during the 50th Wedding Anniversary of Chief Sir & Lady Dr. P. C. Ilokanuno on Saturday, whose function he said he had to cancel other events to attend as mark of respect and love for retirees. Addressing the congregation, Obi said governance would be better and easier if the people continually stood as watchdogs to the leaders.  Obi recalled an incident that happened during his tenure as the Governor of Anambra State, which has left lasting impression on him. He told of how an elderly woman, Mrs. Ndibe, encountered him in the church once and persuaded him to pay off accumulated pensions and gratuities running into billions of naira, before he came into power.   Obi confirmed that it also took the persistent effort of Lady Ilokanuno, whose 50th wedding anniversary with her husband was being celebrated, to ensure that those who were being owed got their due earnings. Lady Ilokanuno was then a school principal, who also desired good governance for the State.  Obi explained that, were it not for people like Mrs. Ndibe and Lady Ilokanuno, who did not stand aside to complain, but courageously stood as bulwarks of good governance in the State, governance would have not been easy.  The Former Governor equally urged the people to pray for the leaders, that God may touch their hearts to use public funds for public service.  …says Nigerians should seek solutions to current challenges   Vice-Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general election, Mr. Peter Obi, has disassociated himself from the poster of himself and Alhaji Rabi‘u Musa Kwankwaso circulating on different social media platforms.   The poster portrayed Obi as… September 27, 2020 In "News" Former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, has explained to Christian faithful that being a bishop in any religious denomination or being in any position of authority, being it as president, governor, senator, is not a title to cling unto, but a call to duty and service to God and… October 4, 2020 In "News" Former Anambra State governor Mr. Peter Obi has revealed what prompted him to undertake massive construction of roads, bridges and many other projects in Awgbu and all the towns in the State.   Speaking at Awgbu during the burial of Chief Joseph Ezibe, the father of Chief Okey Ezibe, Obi… November 8, 2020 In "News"