 Julius Baer has made an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) to settle allegations over its role in corruption surrounding global soccer body FIFA, the bank said on Monday.
The bank has taken a provision of $79.7 million to cover expected fines after agreeing in principal to a three-year deferred prosecution agreement. Julius Baer said it expects a final resolution of the matter “shortly.”
Switzerland’s third largest private bank said it had been cooperating with the DOJ since 2015 in the agency’s investigation of alleged money laundering and corruption involving officials and affiliates of FIFA and associated sports media and marketing companies, reports Reuters.
The affair is a holdover from the era of former Chief Executive Boris Collardi, who is now at Geneva private bank and asset manager Pictet.
Julius Baer was heavily criticised earlier this year by Switzerland’s financial supervisor FINMA for ignoring money laundering risks of FIFA-linked payments.
An ex-banker was convicted in 2017 in U.S. District Court of conspiracy charges for arranging payments from a sports marketing executive to the Argentine soccer association’s president.
Since 2016, the bank said it has addressed the shortcomings identified in its operations, including by redocumenting each of its client relationships and ending its dealings with some customers.  AJIBADE OLUSESAN writes that the negative public perception of the Nigeria Football Federation has affected the growth of the game in the country and this could be stemmed if NFF becomes more transparent in its dealings.       Thirteen members of the board of the Nigeria Football Federation,… December 31, 2019 In "Sports" With over 5,000 registered outfits providing employment for over 15,000 Nigerians under its watch, the Association of Bureau de Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) has reiterated its opposition to any form of abuse relating to illicit financial flow, with a pledge never to go against the banking industry regulator’s directives,… October 2, 2020 In "Business" Former FIFA president Sepp Blatter has called for his successor, Gianni Infantino, to be suspended by the global soccer body after criminal proceedings were opened against Infantino in Switzerland. Swiss authorities said on Thursday that proceedings had been launched against the current FIFA boss by a special prosecutor looking into… July 31, 2020 In "Sports"