The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has welcomed the resolution by the British parliament to impose travel restriction and visa ban on officials of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government involved in the violation of human rights, including the shooting and killing of unarmed and peaceful demonstrators in the country. The PDP, in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, however urged the United Nations and other international bodies to immediately list indicted officials of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government for alleged crime against humanity going on in Nigeria in the last five years. “Our party also urges the British Government to extend the proposed sanctions to include the freezing of assets and funds belonging to such officials and their families in the United Kingdom. “We also call on other countries, including United States, France, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa among others to impose similar sanctions against indicted officials of the Buhari administration for human rights violations and crime against humanity. “Such sanctions should also be imposed on officials indicted for undermining our democracy and electoral system,” the party further demanded. According to the statement, the international community should also indict President Buhari, as the buck stops on his table, noting that under his watch, human rights violations were allegedly committed. It condemned the use of force and the deployment of the military with live ammunition, as well as recruitment of armed thugs to attack and kill innocent Nigerian youths, who were in peaceful demonstration against widespread police brutality and other systemic injustices. This, the party noted, were contained in earlier reports by Amnesty International and US Department of State among other international bodies. The PDP noted that the Buhari administration has failed to come clean on who ordered the deployment of troops to Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos, where unarmed demonstrators were allegedly shot and killed even while waving the national flag and singing the national anthem. The party said it was equally frightening that government has also failed to explain how armed thugs were seen being brought in security vans to unleash violence on demonstrators in Abuja and other parts of the country.  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has welcomed the resolution by the British parliament to impose travel restrictions and visa bans on officials of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government involved in the violation of human rights, including the shooting and killing of unarmed and peaceful demonstrators in the country.… November 25, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday asked the United States (U.S.) to include family members and assets of people involved in undermining Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections in nigeria in the visa ban imposed on some politicians. The party, which commended the U.S. government for taken such action, also called… September 16, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said due process was not followed in the N5 million fine imposed on Nigeria Info 99.3FM by the Federal Government for hate speech. The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), on Wednesday, imposed the fine on the radio station for providing its platform for a former… August 14, 2020 In "News"