 Major oil companies have asked local authorities to boost surveillance on oil-producing and oil and infrastructure assets in Nigeria following protests against police brutality and plans for oil job cuts, three industry sources told Reuters on Wednesday.
The protests and the expected job cuts are further aggravating the unemployment in the Niger Delta, Nigeria’s oil-producing region, and companies and non-profit organizations fear a spike in oil theft on pipelines.
The unemployment rates in Nigeria’s key oil-producing states in the Delta exceed 45 percent, reports oil price.com.
Nigerians recently had protested against the notorious Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Rights group say that the Nigerian army and police shot dead at least 12 peaceful protesters in Lagos last month. At times, protests across Nigeria turned into riots and looting.
The escalating tension in Africa’s top oil producer drew reaction from the U.S. State Department, with Secretary Mike Pompeo saying at the end of October that “The United States strongly condemns the use of excessive force by military forces who fired on unarmed demonstrators in Lagos, causing death and injury.”
The situation in Nigeria hasn’t spilled to its vital oil sector yet. The oil and gas industry accounts for around 10 percent of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), while petroleum export revenue accounts for 86 percent of the total revenue from exports.
The protests add to plans by some oil majors to cut jobs in Nigeria, which makes the employment situation in the oil-producing regions even gloomier. Chevron has said it would cut 25 percent of its workforce in Nigeria.
Faced with even fewer job prospects, more people in the Niger Delta could turn to criminal activities such as tapping pipelines for oil and petroleum products to later sell them, observers and industry sources and analysts told Reuters, although they said the locals would not blow up pipelines.  Nine militant groups in the oil-rich Niger Delta have threatened to dump the ceasefire agreement with the Federal Government and attack oil facilities in the region if the demands of #EndSARS protesters are not met.   The militant groups under the aegis of the Reformed Niger Delta Avengers (RNDA), which… October 21, 2020 In "News" Thousands of Nigerians are asking British judges to give them permission to sue Royal Dutch Shell Plc in London over environmental damage caused by oil spills 3,000 miles away in Africa. Lawyers for residents of the crude-rich Niger Delta believe a landmark U.K. Supreme Court ruling last year against… June 23, 2020 In "News" Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, yesterday, warned the Federal Government to address all issues provoking agitations in the Niger Delta to ensure uninterrupted oil production. Omo-Agege gave the warning while making his contributions to the ongoing debate on the general principles of the 2021 Appropriation Bill. He expressed… October 15, 2020 In "News"