…as former VP leads 205 to 171 from projected results in 36 of 50 states US Presidential candidate, former Vice President Joe Biden has just spoken from his campaign base in Delaware confidently saying the Democrats are going to win.
“We knew this was going to go long, but who knew we would go into maybe tomorrow morning, maybe even longer!” Biden says, speaking now from Delaware.
“But we feel good about where we are. I’m here to tell you tonight we believe we’re on track to win this election.”
He adds: “It ain’t over until every vote, every ballot is counted.”
According to current projections, Biden is leading President Donald Trump with 205 to 171 electoral college votes from 36 of the 50 states so far concluded.
It is, however, a tight race in the important battle ground states, reports the BBC.
To emerge winner a candidate has to win 270 electoral college votes.
Meanwhile, California Democrat Nancy Pelosi is singing the praises of House Democrats, who have retained their majority in the chamber.
It means Pelosi will likely return as Speaker of the House when the new Congress convenes.
The issue that helped hand Democrats the win was healthcare, Pelosi said.
Democrats still need to win four seats in the upper chamber of Congress, the Senate, to gain a majority there.  The 2020 US elections are billed for Tuesday, November 3, 2020. As many as 13 state and territorial governorships, as well as numerous other state and county elections, all 435 seats in the House of Representatives and 35 of the 100 seats in the Senate will be contested.   But… November 1, 2020 In "Opinion" Its D-Day in the United States as voters cast their ballots to decide whether Donald Trump remains in the White House for another four years or his challenger, former Vice- President Joe Biden, will take over from him. WALE ELEGBEDE reports     After months of bitter campaigns and intriguing… November 3, 2020 In "Politics" With millions of legitimate ballots left to count, Donald Trump has declared an unsupported victory. "Frankly we did win this election," he claims, speaking in subdued tone. He suggests - without evidence - that election "fraud" has occurred. "This is an embarrassment to our country," he says, adding that… November 4, 2020 In "Top Stories"