Air France and KLM have concluded plans to resume flights to Nigeria more than eight months after they suspended flights to the country occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic. This is also coming nearly three months after the Nigerian government barred the two mega carriers from the country following the activation of reciprocity policy.  The carriers, in a statement made available to New Telegraph yesterday, said: “As from December 7, 2020, Air France and KLM Royal Dutch airlines will resume passenger flight operations to Abuja and Lagos.”  General Manager Air France KLM Nigeria & Ghana, Michel Colleau, disclosed that passengers can now fly Air France and KLM from Nigeria (Abuja and Lagos) to Paris and Amsterdam with the possibility of transfer to other European and North Atlantic destinations.  He stated that Air France and KLM were monitoring the changing health situation worldwide on a daily basis and are committed to providing its customers optimum health and hygiene conditions at every stage of their trip.  His words: “Flights to and from Lagos and Abuja will be operated in strict compliance with NCAA and international health protocols and will adhere to the highest standards of health and hygiene.”    Air France and KLM have concluded plans to resume flight into the country more than eight months after they suspended flights to Nigeria occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic and nearly three months after the Nigerian government barred the two mega carrier from the country following the activation of reciprocity policy.… November 23, 2020 In "Business" PH, Kano, Enugu airports to reopen for int’l flights   The Federal Government has lifted flight ban on Air France, KLM and Lufthansa airlines. The three airlines can now resume flight services between Paris, Amsterdam and Frankfurt to Lagos, according to Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, who made the announcement via… November 18, 2020 In "News" *Ministries working to re-open P’H, Kano, Enugu airport to int’s flights Wole Shadare The Federal Government has lifted flight bans on Air France, KLM and Lufthansa German Airlines. The three airlines can now resume flight services between Paris, Amsterdam and Frankfurt to Lagos according to Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, who… November 17, 2020 In "Aviation"