  Arsenal brought Gunnersaurus back from the brink of extinction on Tuesday, barely a month after the club’s beloved mascot was made redundant as part of a cost-cutting effort aimed at mitigating the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Jerry Quy, who entertained home fans at the Emirates Stadium by dressing up as a green dinosaur, was let go by the club at the start of October and his departure did not go down well, with fans flocking to social media to make their feelings known, reports Reuters.
Arsenal said they would bring back Gunnersaurus when fans were allowed to return to the Emirates Stadium, but the team have suffered two dispiriting home defeats in a row since his departure, to Leicester City and Aston Vila.
Gunnersaurus posted pictures of himself giving a thumbs up at the Emirates Stadium on Tuesday, along with the caption, “Back at Emirates Stadium today.”
Fans will no doubt hope he will be around when Arsenal host Wolverhampton Wanderers in their first home game back after the international break on Nov. 28 and can help bring about an immediate improvement in their flagging home form.  N orth London is the place to be as bitter city rivals, Tottenham Hotspur host Arsenal in the game of the English Premier League weekend.   Although the distance between Spurs’ Tottenham Hotspur Stadium and Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium may only be 6.4 kilometres, however, when it comes to purely footballing… July 12, 2020 In "Sports" Of all the Arsenal squad there are few, perhaps none, whose connection with the squad is as deep as that of Hector Bellerin. Among first team players only Mesut Ozil and Emiliano Martinez are longer serving. Only the former has made more appearances. Whilst Ozil has been ostracised Bellerin has… September 2, 2020 In "Sports" *Says: 'Fans deserve honest explanation' This week, Mesut Ozil's exile at Arsenal  has extended to unprecedented levels. The 32-year-old cannot play senior football again until January at the earliest after being left out of the Gunners' Premier League and Europa League squads for what manager Mikel Arteta insisted on Wednesday night were solely… October 24, 2020 In "Sports"