Principal and students of Baptist Girls High School, Osogbo, have commended Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for reverting the school uniform to it old colours.  Oyetola’s directives that the old uniform should be returned starting from the beginning of new academic session eventually took effect on November 16, 2020 as monitored by our correspondent.  The principal of Baptist Girls High School, Osogbo, Mrs. Stella Oluwatoyin Olatunji, described the reversal of school uniform to the old colours as the best. She said: “Returning the students has been very smooth and peaceful.   The commissioner has visited us. Directors of schools have visited us and they are satisfied with the compliance. “The boys have been relocated to St. Charles and the girls in that school have been coming here. We have lists of the boys coming here and the list of the girls has been submitted to them at St Charles.”  On why some students are still wearing the old uniform, the principal said, “as human beings, they cannot all comply at a time.  However, the government has given them till December 1 to change to the new uniform”. Olatunji, however, expressed joy, having only female students in her school.  She said: “Controlling only females will make it very peaceful. It is because women are easily controllable.” One of the students of Baptist Girls High School in Senior Secondary School (SSS) 3, Ibrahim Rashidat, expressed joy that she would see students of her school in uniform outside the school and be able to easily identify them. Another SSS 3 student,  Osunkwo Chidinma, commended the reversal of school uniform to its old colours. She said: “Though the school is boring without boys around, we have no choice since it is the directive from the government.  “However, as for girls only, I love it and we girls will move forward. We have brilliant ones among the boys that you can study together.  Some of those that are causing trouble are not students of our school; they usually come from another school.” On the school uniform, Chidinma said, “as for me, I don’t like the one we were using before because if I see my schoolmate in school uniform outside, I can’t recognise her because of the same uniform.  But now, if I see my schoolmate in green and white uniform, I can recognise her with the school uniform”.  A number of secondary schools in Cross River State on Tuesday resumed schools for exit students in line with the directive of the Federal Government schools should be opened to enable final year students to begin preparation for their examination. Our correspondent observed that anxious students who have been waiting… August 5, 2020 In "News" Public and private schools yesterday reopened in some states for first term of the 2020/2021 session after six months of closure due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. In Ogun State, schools opened for a new academic session with parents expressing worry over the safety of their children.      … September 22, 2020 In "News" Resumption of final year students of secondary schools became necessary as the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) slated to begin in less than two weeks from now approaches. Our reporters, who took a tour round some schools across the country, noticed that non pharmaceutical measures are already in… August 8, 2020 In "Feature"