…receives Salami probe panel’s report on Magu
• Committee wants EFCC chair appointed from outside of police President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said he desired to make Nigeria a country that has no tolerance for corruption, but one where the menace is vigorously battled. The President stated this while receiving the report of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry on the investigation of Ibrahim Magu, acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), headed by Justice Ayo Salami (rtd), at the State House, Abuja. The President had in July set up the Salami panel to probe allegations of corruption against the suspended EFCC’s chairman, with an ultimatum to submit its report within 45 days, however, the submission deadline was later extended. A statement made available to journalists yesterday by the president’s spokesman, Mr. Femi Adesina, said: “Corruption is present in all countries. Some governments treat it with levity. Some fight it all the time. I want Nigeria to be counted among those countries that do not tolerate but fight corruption.” The President called on all stakeholders and every Nigerian to own the fight against corruption in their respective levels in order to protect Nigeria’s political and economic systems, and the continuous existence of the Nigerian State from the serious threat of corruption. While insisting that the fight against corruption was one that must be fought without fear or favour, the President thanked members of the Commission for their dedication and commitment to the fight against corruption. He said: “The sad reality confronting us as a people is that there is corruption almost everywhere; at many levels of government, and nearly every stratum of our society. “Mindful of the threat that corruption poses to us as a nation, this administration has specifically focused on the fight against corruption. “As a government, and in furtherance of our anticorruption programme, we have since inception engaged in many reforms in removing corruption including but not limited to the enforcement of Treasury Single Account (TSA), strict implementation of the Bank Verification Number policy and signing unto the Open Government Partnership. “A lot of efforts have gone into building and development of our anti-corruption institutions. We have so far kept faith with our promise and shalremain committed until Nigeria triumphs over the evil of corruption, attain a prosperous economic status and surmounts her security challenges. “However, the stark reality of widespread corruption becomes poignant when allegations of corruption touches on the leadership of an institution set up by law to coordinate and enforce all economic and financial crimes. “It is an abomination that strikes at the root, and undermines the government’s anti-corruption programme. “It was in response to the serious allegations against the EFCC that I set up a panel headed by the Justice Isa Ayo Salami, retired President of the Court of Appeal, via an Instrument dated July 3, 2020 pursuant to the Tribunals of Inquiry Act (Cap T21, LFN, 2004). “We recognise that there are more grounds to cover in the war against corruption, and we are prepared to go out to possess those lands by cutting off any stream that nourishes the seed of corruption and supports its growth. “Let it be known that in the fight against corruption,no one is too big to tackle, as no individual is bigger than the Nigerian State!” In his remarks, Justice Salami said Magu and 113 witnesses appeared and testified before the commission, adding that 46 petitions and memoranda were presented by individuals and organisations with complaints against the suspended Magu, EFCC or both. Salami disclosed that the Commission also embarked on a nationwide physical verification of recovered for- eited assets, comprising real estate, automobiles, vessels and non-cash assets. He commended the President for the initiative to dispose all forfeited assets ”because of the poor condition of the assets we saw during our physical verification nationwide.” While noting that the four chairmen of EFCC since inception were from the police, Salami also recommended that in appointing a new chairman consideration should be given to candidates from other law enforcement or security agencies and core staff of the EFCC as provided in the EFCC establishment Act of 2004  There was a high class drama yesterday in the nation's capital, Abuja, following the arrest and interrogation of the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, for alleged corruption and money laundering.   Magu was reportedly picked up as he was leaving… July 7, 2020 In "News" There is more to be heard and seen as regards the case of suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr Ibrahim Magu, this is according to a statement from the presidency. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, stated… July 20, 2020 In "News" …says Service chiefs could do much better In what appears as his first official reaction to the ongoing probes, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday reacted on the allegations of corruption levelled against the leaderships of some Federal Government’s agencies and commissions. The President’s reaction was coming on the sidelines of the… August 1, 2020 In "News"