Police in Oyo State have arrested some soldiers attached to Operation Burst for brutalising a lady at Beere of Ibadan, the state capital.  A viral video shows how a soldier identified as Adesina was beating a lady he accused of dressing indecently. Residents of the area have also complained that men of the Operation Burst had in the past three weeks turned themselves to barbers, cutting the hair of any resident wearing dreadlocks. G  overnor Seyi Makinde had in the wake of #End- SARS protests ordered Operation Burst officials to take over the maintenance of law and order in the state since the police were directed to stay off to avoid attacks from angry youths.  The Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Seun Fakorede, said there were a lot of complaints about illegal activities of some soldiers in Ibadan.  He said: “My ears are full with news of the unlawful activities of some soldiers of the Nigerian Army, over the weekend. I have immediately reached out to the Commandant of the Operation Burst and I have been assured that the men involved in this distasteful operation have been arrested and taken to the barracks. They will be dealt with accordingly.  This will not repeat itself again in Oyo State.” Admitting culpability of the officer and some other men in the attacks on innocent residents of Ibadan, the Operation Burst Commander, Captain Usolo, apologised to the families of those assaulted. Usolo said Adesina, who assaulted the lady, had been arrested and detained alongside other “erratic” officers. He added that new officers had been incorporated into the security outfit to replace those who went overboard   Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan   The ranks of the notorious hoodlums terrorising the peace of Oyo State have been further depleted as the Director General of Oyo State Joint Security Task Force, popularly known as ‘Operation Burst’, Col. Oladipo Ajibola (rtd), Sunday disclosed that the second in command to the late… September 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Ondo gov rallies South-West to end protests   G overnors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia) and Simon Lalong (Plateau) have imposed a 24-hour curfew on their respective states. The curfew was announced to end the spate of violence, which has in the last… October 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Gunshots rent the air yesterday at the Oyo State Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, following a clash between soldiers and hunters under the auspice of Agbekoya. Trouble started when a member of the Agbekoya allegedly slapped one of the soldiers stationed at the entrance of the Secretariat because the hunters were not… October 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"