The Kingdom of Belgium has conferred the honorary distinction of Officer in the Order of Leopold, the country’s oldest and most important National Honour, on Africa’s lead  ing investor and philanthropist, Tony Elumelu, in recognition of his commitment to poverty eradication and the economic empowerment of young Africans.  The Ambassador of Belgium to Nigeria, Daniel Bertrand, presented the royal decoration on Sunday, November 15 – the Belgian King’s Day and a symbolic national day of celebration, at the Belgian House in Abuja, with public and private sector leaders witnessing the ceremony. Elumelu has been responsible for initiatives creating millions of jobs and employment for young Africans across the continent, through his philanthropy,  The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF). The Foundation’s flagship intervention, the TEF Entrepreneurship Programme, for instance, is a 10-year, $100 million commitment to identify, train, mentor, and fund 10,000 young African entrepreneurs across 54 African countries.  Over 9,600 young Africans are current beneficiaries, just six years since its inception. In addition to its own significant programme, the Foundation partners with institutions such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), to bring its proven methodology to an even broader universe.  Elumelu believes that youth entrepreneurship has the potential to tackle global challenges such as forced migration, poverty, and hunger. Also, his concept of Africapitalism is redefining national development, making the case for the critical role that the private sector must play in transforming Africa. His businesses are present in 20 African countries and key international markets, with over 30,000 people in employment.  Elumelu’s investments span power, financial services, healthcare, energy, technology, hospitality, and real estate. He chairs family-owned African investment company, Heirs Holdings; pan- African financial services group, the United Bank for Africa (UBA), which operates across Africa, the United Kingdom, France and the only African bank with a commercial deposit taking licence in the United States, and Nigeria’s largest quoted conglomerate, Transcorp, that has subsidiaries such as Transcorp Power, one of the leading generators of electricity in Nigeria and Transcorp Hotels Plc., Nigeria’s foremost hospitality brand.  Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who was at the event, said: “Let me, on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria, express our deepest appreciation to the King and Queen of Belgium for recognising the wonderful work of Mr. Tony Elumelu and what he is doing in our nation and on the continent of Africa by prioritising the empowerment of our youth.  “When we identify somebody in the private sector who believes in that core mandate, the government has no option, but to continue to support your endeavours, and I can assure you that on behalf of the President, you will continue to receive it.  “As Nigerians, we stand here today very proud of the excellent work Elumelu has done in Nigeria and on our continent and we ask him to do more.” Earlier in 2019,  Elumelu was conferred with the National Productivity Merit Award in Nigeria and in 2020, he featured in the Time 100 most influential people in the world.   One of Africa’s leading investors and philanthropists, Mr. Tony Elumelu, has been named among TIME Magazine’s 100 most influential people of 2020. Time 100 is an annual list of 100 most influential people in the world, assembled by the respected American news magazine, TIME. The list, now in its seventeenth… September 24, 2020 In "Business" The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) has emphasized the need to empower the youth to tackle the menaceof povertyonthecontinent. TEF CEO, Ifeyinwa Ugochukwu, stated this at an event organized by the Foundation to mark the International Youth Day on August 12, 2020.   The event, which had as its theme, “Investing… August 17, 2020 In "Business" ...Advocates collaborations to boost continents fortunes The Group Chairman, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Tony Elumelu has said that the coronavirus pandemic has presented a perfect opportunity for foreign investors to invest in Africa, owing to the huge opportunities that are inherent in the African economy. “This is the… August 1, 2020 In "News"