*Hoodlums deploy dynamite, cart away guns, ammunition Cajetan Mmuta, Benin Dare devil armed men on Monday night struck at a Divisional Police Station in Igueben Local Government Area of Edo State and killed two officers in the process.
The heavily armed hoodlums during the attack also carted away arms and ammunition during the assault in which dynamite was also allegedly used.
A police Inspector and a constable (names withheld) were reportedly killed during the attack.
Some policemen on duty were also severely wounded by the bandits.
But the Police Public Relations Officer of the state command, SP Chidi Nwabuzor in a statement Tuesday said no police was killed in the attack and that two policemen sustained gunshot injuries during the attack.
The hoodlums were said to have stormed the police station at about 8pm
Investigations revealed that the gunmen threw dynamite into the station before gaining access into the premises.
They were said to have immediately headed for the armoury where the arms and ammunition were stolen.
The bodies of the dead policemen have been deposited at a mortuary within the area.
Meanwhile, youths of the area have protested following the late night attack making bonfires and blocking major streets.
They called on the government to probe the attack insisting it was not carried out by indigenes.
They described the attackers as the handwork of external invaders.  Following the killing of a Police Corporal attached to the Ikolaba Police Station, Ibadan, by some yet-to-be identified gunmen Friday night, the Oyo State Police Command yesterday said that its personnel have been on the trail of the killers.   Some hoodlums had attacked two officers attached to the station,… August 23, 2020 In "News" ...kill two other cops, torch station, steal arms Hoodlums have killed an officer, Inspector Egu Omoni, attached to Ebonyi State Police Command, cut off his penis and snatched his AK-47 rifle, during an attack on a police station in Abakaliki. The thugs, armed with sophisticated weapons and objects suspected to… October 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits have killed 14 people in communities in Katsina and Niger states. Eight people were shot dead in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State while six vigilantes were murdered in a renewed attack on Kagara town in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State. In the Katsina State attack,… October 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"