The Nigeria Football Federation is battling to bring sanity to Super Eagles camp over ‘the bad blood’ generated by Friday’s 4-4 draw the Nigerian team recorded against Sierra Leone in an African Cup of Nations qualifier.  Nigeria led Sierra Leone by 4-0 only for the Leone Stars to come back and force the Super Eagles to a 4-4 draw. At the end of the game, many of the players and some back room staff blamed Rohr for the draw, accusing the German of ignoring their counsel in game management.  An NFF top official, who pleaded anonymity, said the federation’s President, Amaju Pinnick, had to intervene when it looked like some players and coaches were trying to mutiny against Rohr over the way he is handling the team.  Relating to an incident during the match when Skipper Ahmed Musa had to confront Rohr for making bad changes in the course of the game, the source said many of the senior players accused the German of not understanding the flow of the game and therefore could not make effective changes.  “The Sierra Leonean coach made three changes that turned the game on its head, while Rohr reduced the effectiveness of our team by some curious decisions  Following the unimpressive international friendly matches against Dessert Foxes of Algeria and Carthage Eagles of Tunisia, Nigeria’s Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, has said that it will be extremely difficult for him to select players for the upcoming 2021 African Cup of Nations qualifiers due to the performance of the… October 15, 2020 In "Sports" ...Rohr, Musa insist six points possible Super Eagles of Nigeria are targeting maximum six points over two-leg against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone so as to secure 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualification with games to spare. Nigeria are currently leading their group with six points from two games… November 12, 2020 In "Sports" They have become used to this trend of things under Franco-German trainer, Gernot Rohr in his four years and four months so far: earning tickets to major tournaments with matches to spare. And that is what the Super Eagles aim to continue in this international fixtures-corridor when they confront the… November 11, 2020 In "Sports"