Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu has congratulated the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abia State, Hon. Donatus Nwankpa on the occasion of his birthday anniversary.  Describing the celebrator as a consummate politician and seasoned public administrator, the leader of the Abia APC caucus, urged Nwankpa to sustain his good works in the political and humanitarian circles.  Kalu, who applauded the party chairman for his inclusiveness and participatory approach in steering the affairs of the APC in Abia State, noted that Nwankpa is a rallying point for APC members in the state. In his goodwill message, the former governor prayed for longer life and wisdom for the celebrant as he serves the party and Abians in general.  Kalu said: “On behalf of my constituents and the APC family in Abia state , I felicitate with the chairman of our great party, APC, in Abia State, Hon. Donatus Nwankpa as he celebrates his birthday. “Under his watch, the party has been waxing strong.  “The celebrant’s pedigree has earned him popularity among party chieftains and members. “He has brought to bear his vast experience in politics in his noble assignment. “I am proud of the remarkable achievements of Nwankpa as APC chairman.  “The celebrator remains a great asset to the party.” Kalu while extending his greetings to family, friends, political associates of Nwankpa and the APC family, prayed to God to strengthen the celebrator in all his endeavours.  The former governor wished Nwankpa a joyous and memorable celebration.  The All Progressives Congress (APC) Abia State chapter yesterday dissolved the party’s caucus and instituted a new caucus for the party where the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu emerged the Chairman of the caucus. The election held in Abuja was attended by former members of the… June 24, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday lauded the Yobe State Governor and Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Committee, Mai Mala Buni, for reconciling factions, bringing back former members and welcoming new ones into the party. The President in a statement made available to newsmen by his spokesman,… November 20, 2020 In "News" The Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives and Member Representing Isuikwuato-Umunneochi Federal Constituency, Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha has called on the Abia State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to make its opposition status in the state felt.   Onyejeocha made this call at Isuochi in Umunneochi Local… September 27, 2020 In "News"