Some yet-to-be-identified persons on Monday attacked oil facilities operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) at Ikarama community, Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. Mr. Ben Warder, a youth leader in Ikarama near the incident site, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday that residents heard several sounds from the explosions that rocked the oil fields on Monday. He said: “The site is not far from Ikarama, we heard sounds from the blast and it sounded like dynamites and it was not safe to go near. “So, when the situation became quiet we had to trace what happened and it turned out that Shell’s gas pipeline and Agip’s crude lines were destroyed. “The incident resulted to air pollution from the gas pipeline and crude leak which members of the affected communities are battling to cope with.” Confirming the incident yesterday, Mr Michael Adande, an SPDC spokesman, said the oil firm had received reports of the incident and shut down the facility to curtail impact. He said: “We have a report of interference on our pipeline about one kilometre from Ikarama community in Bayelsa State. “We immediately shut-in the line and we have informed the relevant regulatory government agencies and stakeholders. “A government-led joint investigation team will determine the cause of the interference.”  Pauline Onyibe,Yenagoa Unidentified persons have attacked oil facilities operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) at Ikarama community in Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State damaging the pipelines. Ben Warder, a youth leader in Ikarama on Tuesday said that residents heard several… November 24, 2020 In "News" Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has called on the Federal Government and multinationals oil companies operating in the state to invest more in building critical infrastructure, especially in Oloibiri community, where the first oil well was discovered in the country. The governor made the call yesterday during a virtual meeting… August 7, 2020 In "News" The Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) yesterday said it has grown its oil output to an average of 514,000 barrels per day (bpd) and developed additional capacity to produce more. The production data was disclosed by the Chairman of Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor during the oil firm’s 2020… September 17, 2020 In "News"