 Bayern Munich have withdrawn their contract offer to David Alaba, after failing to reach an agreement with the defender.
The club’s president, Herbert Hainer, has revealed a deadline of October 31 was set to reach an agreement.
Negotiations have now ended, after Alaba’s agent indicated their latest offer was not acceptable.
The Austria international’s current deal expires at the end of the season and he will be free to discuss terms with rival clubs from January.
A host of sides have been linked with a move for the defender, most notably Serie A champions Juventus.
“We presented him with a really, very good very fair, competitive offer – especially during these times,” Hainer told BR24Sport.
“We told David’s agent during the last meeting that we wanted clarity and an answer by the end of October, because we want to plan for such an important position and personnel. But we didn’t hear anything.
“Our sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic then contacted the agent and the answer was that the offer is still unsatisfying and that we should think more.
“We then decided to take the offer off the table completely. That means there is no longer any offer.”  Leroy Sane will leave Manchester City this summer if a deal can be agreed with another club after he rejected a new contract, says manager Pep Guardiola. City have given up hope of negotiating a new contract with Sane after nearly two years of talks with the Germany international. Bayern… June 20, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich midfielder Thiago Alcantara has reportedly said his goodbyes to his teammates after agreeing a four-year deal with Liverpool. The Reds are keen on striking an agreement with Bayern for the 29-year-old as Jurgen Klopp looks to bolster his options in the middle of the park, reports mirror.co.uk. And,… August 16, 2020 In "Sports" * As Luiz accepts blame for Arsenal defeat Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola said he is "very concerned" after defender Eric Garcia was taken to hospital following a collision against Arsenal. The 19-year-old collided with City keeper Ederson late on in the 3-0 Premier League win at Etihad Stadium, reports… June 18, 2020 In "Sports"