President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the US President-elect, Joe Biden, to introduce greater engagement with Africa on the basis of reciprocal respect and shared interest. In a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, Buhari congratulated the former US Vice President on his election “at a time of uncertainty and fear in world affairs.” The Nigerian leader said: “Your election is a significant reminder that democracy is the best form of government because it offers the people the opportunity to change their government by peaceful means.” According to Buhari: “The most powerful group are not the politicians, but voters who can decide the fate of the politicians at the polling booth.” He noted that: “The main fascination of democracy is the freedom of choice and the supremacy of the will of the people.” The President added that “respect for the will of the people is the very reason why democracy remains the best form of government, despite its limitations from one polity to another, and from one society to another.”  President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the US President-elect, Joe Biden, to introduce greater engagement with Africa on the basis of reciprocal respect and shared interest. In a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, Buhari congratulated the former US Vice President on his election "at… November 7, 2020 In "News" INTRODUCTION   In the midst of suffering, gnashing of teeth, hunger, squalor, despondency, corruption, insecurity, mass poverty and even hopelessness, many Nigerians have been asking me (both by SMS, phone calls, WatsApp messages, and emails), whether democracy is actually the best form of government. They are wondering if… October 11, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Nigeria is currently facing a lot of challenge of insecurity and even the government and ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) is also embroiled in internal squabbles.  In this interview, Dr Junaid Mohammed, medical doctor, politician and critic examines these challenges and  tells  ONWUKA NZESHI that the  government… June 28, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine"