Worried by the high level of cultism in primary, secondary and tertiary institutions across the country, the Ogun State government has promised to fight the menace and make all the schools, including tertiary institutions a peaceful place of learning for the students.  The Special Adviser to the Governor on Technical Education, Prof. Joseph Odemuyiwa made this known while decorating him as Commander, Corps Marshal by the National School Crime Prevention Corps (NSCPC), at his Office, Oke- Mosan Abeokuta.  Prof. Odemuyiwa, in a statement signed by the Press Officer, Bureau of Technical Education, Mrs. Busayo Malaolu, said the National School Crime Prevention Corps has done the necessary things in combating crime and cultism at earlier stage in the schools, so as to prevent adult cultism, hooliganism and hoodlums in the society as well as the country at large.  In his response, the Commander General, Commandant, Folayinka Ige, said that the organisation has seized a lot of dangerous weapons from the students during school period, saying that they would not relent in the rehabilitation exercise to the wards and its usefulness to the school.  He then urged the parents, guardians to always admonish their wards and feed them with words of God in ensuring that their wards become better persons in the society  The release of N40m intervention fund by Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun to DS Adegbenro ICT Polytechnic, Itori, for accreditation of some engineering courses in the institution has been described as a gesture that would standardise and promote engineering related courses.   The Special Adviser to the Governor on… October 4, 2020 In "News" The Ogun State government says it educational reform will mull teachers’ commitment and dedication to work, which will propel students’ academic excellence in the State.   The Special Adviser to the Governor on Primary and Secondary Education, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo made this known during the newly inducted Principals and Vice… October 25, 2020 In "News" ...as ASUU says 'it’s suicidal to reopen varsities now' The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has warned states planning to fully reopen schools to be guided by the experiences of a number of advanced countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and France.   The PTF, however,… August 31, 2020 In "News"