*As body arrives Presidential Palace Diego Maradona’s body did not show “any sign of violence” and everything indicates that he died of “natural causes,” the prosecutor general of the Argentinian town of San Isidro, John Broyad, said on Wednesday.
According to him, the Argentinian football legend died at “around 12:00” local time (11pm Singapore time) on Wednesday at his home in the neighbourhood of San Andres, on the northern outskirts of the capital Buenos Aires, reports Xinxua.
In statements to the press, Broyad said that “at 16:00 (local time) the work of the Forensics Police began” on the body of the former footballer.
“No signs of criminality were evident, no signs of violence,” said the prosecutor.
In addition, he reported that an autopsy would be carried out at the morgue of San Fernando Hospital, to “reliably determine the causes of death”.
The 60-year-old Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata coach is believed to have died of a heart attack following brain surgery due to a stroke earlier this month
Meanwhile, Maradona’s coffin has arrived at the presidential palace in Buenos Aires for a period of lying in state, local TV reports showed, following the death of the argentine football legend aged 60 on Wednesday.
Hundreds of people were already lining up to pay their respects to Maradona, who died while recovering from a brain operation, the images from sports channels TyC and ESPN showed.
Thousands more, many in tears and wearing the World Cup winner’s No. 10 Argentina jersey, gathered in streets and at stadiums around Buenos Aires in spontaneous celebration of the player and manager’s riotous life.  Tributes are pouring in for the legendary footballer Diego Maradona, who has died at the age of 60. Former England star Gary Lineker, who famously played against Maradona in the World Cup quarter-final in 1986, described his opponent as "the best player of my generation and arguably the greatest of all… November 26, 2020 In "Sports" Pope Francis has remembered Diego Maradona in his prayers after learning of the soccer legend’s death on Wednesday, the Vatican said. Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said that the pope, after being informed of Maradona’s death, “thinks back fondly to the times they met in these years and remembers… November 26, 2020 In "Sports" Diego Maradona has been released from hospital just over a week after having surgery to remove a blood clot on his brain. The Argentina football legend left the clinic in Buenos Aires where he underwent the procedure on Wednesday and will continue his recovery at home. The World Cup… November 12, 2020 In "Sports"