No fewer than nine Nigerian Americans are on the ballot in Tuesday’s general election in the United States.  Running mostly on the platform of the Democratic Party, the candidates are bidding for different offices at the federal, state and local levels. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that besides the presidential election, governorship polls are holding in 11 states and two territories, in addition to other state and local elections.  Congressional elections are also holding on Tuesday with all the 435 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives, and 35 of the 100 seats in the Senate up for grabs. At the federal level, Mr. Oye Owolewa, whose father is from Kwara and mother from Oyo, is aiming for a ‘shadow’ (non-voting) seat in the House of Representatives. Owolewa, a Ph.D holder in Pharmacy from the Northeastern University, Boston, is seeking to represent the District of Columbia (DC) under the Democratic Party.  If elected, the 30-year-old, whose agenda include fighting income inequality in the U.S., would be the first Nigerian congressman in the country’s history. Also at the federal level, Mr. Yomi Faparusi, an Ibadan-born native of Ode- Ekiti in Ekiti State, is vying as an independent candidate to represent the state of Tennessee in the U.S. Senate. Faparusi holds a doctorate in Medicine from the University of Ibadan, a Ph.D. in Health from Johns Hopkins University, and Juris Doctorate from the Widener University School of Law, Delaware.  This is not his first shot at the U.S. Congress. In 2014 and 2016, he vied for the Republican Party’s ticket to the House of Representatives, but lost in both occasions. Faparusi’s priorities include being a positive voice for all Nigerians in the U.S. Senate, and inspiring Americans of African or Nigerian descent to seek public office in the country.  In Missouri, a Republican- controlled state, Mr. Yinka Faleti from Lagos is the Democratic Party flagbearer in the election for the office of Secretary of State. The 44-year-old father of four holds a Bachelor’s degree from the United States Military Academy, West Point, and a Juris Doctorate from the Washington University School of Law. His goals as a Secretary of State include protection of the “right to vote for Missouri families”, and ensuring elected officials hear the people’s voice.  Also at the state level, Mr. Paul Akinjo from Ondo, is running for election to the California State Assembly under the Democratic Party to represent District 12. Akinjo once served as Vice Mayor of Lathrop, California, and in the U.S. Army Reserve from 1982 to 1989. His priorities include housing, immigration and transportation.  In Delaware, a small Mid-Atlantic U.S. state, Adewunmi Kuforiji is aspiring to represent District 34 in the state House of Representatives. Kuforiji, originally from Ibadan, Oyo, secured the Democratic Party’s ticket on September 15 after defeating his challenger, Robert Haynes, at the primary.  He holds a Bachelor in Accounting and a Masters in Business Administration from the Delaware State University. In the 2018 mid-term elections, he vied for the same position, but lost to the incumbent, Lyndon Yearick, of the Republican Party, whom he is facing tomorrow.  Also at the state level, Ms Esther Agbaje, is seeking to represent District 59B in the Minnesota House of Representatives on the platform of the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party (DFLP), an affiliate of the U.S. Democratic Party.  The 35-year-old daughter of an Episcopal priest and a librarian, both Nigerian im-    migrants, defeated longtime state Representative, Raymond Dehn in the party’s primary in August. She is one of one of four progressive greenhorns who defeated established Democratic legislators in the primary. Agbaje has a law degree from Harvard University, a Masters from the University of Pennsylvania, and has served in the U.S. Department of State, among others.  On the ballot at the local government level are April Ademiluyi, Ngozi Akubuike and Benjamin Osemenam. Ademiluyi, 39, is running on the Democratic Party’s ticket for Judge of the Seventh Circuit Court in Prince George’s County, Maryland. For her part, Akubuike, a legal practitioner, is an independent candidate for judge of the Minnesota 2nd District Court Position 8.  Akubuike studied law in Nigeria, then worked in the banking sector before moving to the U.S. where she graduated from the Mitchell Hamline School of Law. Osemenam, who moved to the U.S. in 1982, is contesting for a seat in the Brooklyn Park City Council of Minnesota to represent East District. An engineer with the Minnesota Department of Transportation, he is vying on the platform of National Party.  TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the forthcoming Lagos East Senatorial District by-election to fill the seat vacated by late Senator Bayo Osinowo The contest for who succeeds late Senator Bayo Osinowo, who represented Lagos East Senatorial District in the Ninth Senate till June 15, has started earlier than expected as about… July 3, 2020 In "Politics" Two vacant seats in Lagos East Senatorial District have unsettled the internal affairs of the ruling party in the state, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the leading opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). How will the parties resolve the motley of aspiration for their respective tickets? WALE ELEGBEDE writes… August 10, 2020 In "Politics" Wale Elegbede writes on the forthcoming byelection for Lagos East Senatorial District to fill the vacant seat occasioned by the death of Senator Bayo Osinowo Barring any last minute change, the people of Lagos East Senatorial District in Lagos State will go the polls on Saturday October 31, to elect… August 28, 2020 In "Politics"