The Archbishop, Catholic Diocese of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has declared that Nigeria must pay more attention on building human capacity and productive ventures rather than on oil, foreign aid and borrowing from other countries.  In his Homily delivered yesterday at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs, Sabon Lugbe in Abuja, he raised concerns over the nation’s failure to make the needed sacrifices.  Kaigama, who chided the Federal Government on its inability to provide adequate and good job opportunities for its citizens, especially the youth, asked government to deliver on its promises.  His words: “As a country, we must channel our resources into human capacity building and productive ventures instead of our overdependence on oil, foreign aid and aggressive borrowing from other countries.  “We are blessed with huge agricultural potentials to make us self-reliant and our youths gainfully employed. There is no reason to be referred to as the poverty capital of the world. Why we don’t progress well is because we fail to make the necessary sacrifices and transparency that could propel us to greatness.  “Many Nigerians are thriving abroad, but at home, people with good brains and skills are frustrated because of the deficiency of social infrastructure, technical equipment, coupled with corrupt practices. “Our leaders should provide the conducive environment and help people  who have gifts to employ them for the good of fellow Nigerians.  “I, therefore, call on our leaders to generate good job opportunities and create avenues for skills acquisition so that our youths can nourish our country with their great talents. “I pray that the jobs that have been promised to youths by the Federal Government will not end up being for family and friends of those who matter.”  Kaigama, however, admonished Nigerian youths to sit up, engage in voluntary services in order to develop their skills without waiting for white collar jobs.  The Arch Bishop, Catholic Diocese of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has said Nigeria must pay more attention on building human capacity and productive ventures rather than on oil, foreign aid and borrowing from other countries. In his Homily delivered on Sunday at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs, Sabon Lugbe… November 15, 2020 In "News" Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has said corruption has assumed a new level of digital proficiency across all levels, despite the high number of worship places and religious activities in the country. In his Homily delivered during the inauguration of Catholic Action in Abuja Archdiocese at Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Pro-Cathedral over… October 4, 2020 In "Faith" Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has said that corruption in the country has assumed a new level of digital proficiency across all levels, despite the high number of worship places and religious activities in the country.   In his homily delivered during the inauguration of Catholic Action… October 5, 2020 In "News"