 As part of the Power Forward programme, ExxonMobil Foundation, the National Basketball Association (NBA) and Africare, a leading non-governmental organisation (NGO) committed to addressing African development and policy issues, have donated 30,000 masks, 90 new handwashing stations and hand sanitisers to 30 Power Forward schools in Abuja.  The handwashing stations will reach 35,000 school community users. Also, ExxonMobil Foundation, the NBA and Africare have announced that two-time NBA All-Star Victor Oladipo, and 2015 NBA Champion Festus Ezeli will headline the first virtual ‘Power Forward Huddle’ on Thursday, November 19.  The event, which will be conducted virtually for the first time and livestreamed on the NBA Africa You  Tube channel at 4:00 p.m. CAT, will celebrate seven years of the Power Forward programme for youth ages 14 and under and coaches from 30 schools in Abuja, Nigeria. “Using the convening power of sports, our successful collaboration with the NBA and Africare allows young people to play the games they love while receiving the lifeskills and public health messages they need to stay healthy,” said ExxonMobil Foundation President, Kevin Murphy. “Every year, young people graduate these programmes with knowledge on how to protect themselves from infectious diseases like malaria and COVID-19  Nigeria's national men basketball team, D’Tigers, could field a complete roster of current NBA players at next year's Olympics Games in Tokyo the team’s General Manager Musa Adamu has disclosed. D’Tigers’ 12-man roster for their last international outing at the FIBA World Cup last year marked the first time Nigeria… October 26, 2020 In "Sports" Conceived some 47 years ago with the noble idea of fast tracking the integration and further unifying the nation in the wake of the devastating 30-month Civil War, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was seen as the best way to achieve this. Then Head of State General Yakubu Gown… August 29, 2020 In "Perspective" In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the HEINEKEN Africa Foundation has reported that it will be committing £5 million in the coming year to set up Water Access, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) handwashing facilities in sub-Saharan African. Also, the foundation pledged to support WaterAid and World Vision with… September 3, 2020 In "Business"