 Germany’s Federal Employment Agency (BA) is to spend 62 billion euros (74 billion dollars) this year on expenditure relating to the coronavirus pandemic, its finance head said.
BA finance head Christiane Schoenefeld said in Nuremberg on Friday.
The expenditure would lead to a deficit of 27 billion euros to be funded from reserves and assistance from the Federal Government, Schoenefeld said.
The record outflows were largely made up of 23.5 billion euros in unemployment payments and more than 19 billion euros in financing the government-funded furlough scheme, known as short-time working in Germany, reports DPA.
Schoenefeld said the agency remained fully functional, in spite the huge outlays, “No one needs to fear for their payments,” she said.
“The consequences of the crisis will continue into 2021, when we expect a considerable deficit,” she said after drawing up the budget for the year ahead.
The Federal Government will have to provide an additional 3.2 billion euros over the year, with the aim that the agency goes into 2022 free of debt.
The agency is not anticipating a wave of bankruptcies, setting aside 1.6 billion euros for this for 2021, the same as for this year.
But expenditure on in-service training and qualifications and advice for young workers is to be increased.
Schoenefeld predicted that the issue of a lack of skilled workers would once again be significant.  The Federal Government recorded a fiscal deficit of N488.24 billion in its operations in April this year, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said. The apex bank disclosed this in its April 2020 Economic Report released yesterday. According to the report, “The fiscal operations of the Federal Government in… August 19, 2020 In "News" ...relapsed into recession in Q3 ...proposes N13.08trn 2021 budget President Muhammadu Buhari has acknowledged that the Nigerian economy currently faces serious challenges following the significant disruption of the macroeconomic environment by the coronavirus pandemic. The President, who stated this while presenting the 2021 Appropriation Bill to a joint session of… October 9, 2020 In "News" •Debt service to gulp all 2020 revenue –IMF   •Says economy to shrink by -5.4%     •Nigeria’s rating at risk as financing gap rises –Fitch       According to the Joint World Bank-IMF Debt Sustainability Framework for Low-Income Countries released in 2020, a country’s debt service… June 28, 2020 In "Business"