Eight-time champions of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), Enyimba, has emerged the champion of the maiden edition of the Governor Ikpeazu Pre-season Championships concluded on Saturday in Aba, Abia State.  The game started with the LOC Chairman, Ugochukwu Onosike, performing the ceremonial kickoff.  The People’s Elephant had in the first 10 minutes controlled proceedings with complete team work in which they created some chances but were unable to utilise them.  Abia Warriors on the other hand tried creating some chances as well but Kayode Olufemi was there to save those dangerous balls.  The two-time Africa Champions finally had the breakthrough from a run by Tosin Omoyele in the box which resulted to a penalty and the skipper of the team Austin Oladapo made no mistake by sending Ojo Olorunleke the wrong way in the 45th minute. Abia Warriors Paul Samson hit the woodwork in the 63rd minute which could have been the leveller.  The Umuahia Warriors continued mounting pressure thinking they might get an equaliser but the Enyimba FC defenders were alerts throughout the game.  The game finally ended 1 – 0 and Enyimba FC were crowned Champions.  A & A FC of Calabar and Abia Comets of Umuahia will on Sunday kickoff the 2020 edition of the Governor Okezie Ikpeazu Preseason Tournament taking place at the Aba Township Stadium.   In a draw conducted on Friday, eight-time Nigeria Professional Football League champions, Enyimba top group A comprising… November 15, 2020 In "Sports" Coordinator of the Governor Ikpeazu Pre Season Tournament, Patrick Ngwaogwu, has promised a hitch free competition. The pre-season tourney will take place from November 15th to 25th at the Enyimba International Stadium in Aba. "We have been working hard to ensure that everything is in order for the competition," Ngwaogwu… November 12, 2020 In "Sports" Bragging rights is a key component in sports all over the world. Athletes in various disciplines strive to achieve excellence to boost their rating which is a pride for them and the country as a whole. We believe bragging rights is more prevalent in football at club and national team… November 20, 2020 In "Editorial"