It was mixed fortunes on Sunday for the country’s representative in the CAF Champions League as Enyimba secured a valuable 1-0 victory away to Burkina Faso side,  Rahimo FC, while Plateau United suffered a home defeat against Simba SC of Tanzania. Victor Mbaoma came from the bench to secure the win with the only goal of the game in the 73rd minute.  The People’s Elephant will hope to complete the job when they play at home in the second leg in two weeks time.  Meanwhile, Plateau United on Sunday suffered a 1-0 loss at home to Tanzania side, Simba SC, in their first qualifying round. The only goal of the game came in the 54th minute when John Bocco reacted first to a spilled ball by Plateau United goalkeeper, Adamu Abubakar.  It was a game the home side would continue to rue their wastage in front of goal as they missed several chances in each half of he game.   Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, was among the few dignitaries that watched the game, which was played behind close doors, alongside the technical director of the Nigeria Football Federation, Austin Eguavoen.  Ahead of the of the CAF Champions League match between Plateau United and Simba SC football club of Tanzania, scheduled to hold at the Zaria Road Stadium in Jos, Governor Simon Lalong on Wednesday visited the team during their training session in Jos. Lalong while addressing the players and technical… November 27, 2020 In "Sports" Ahead of the of the CAF Champions League match between Plateau United and Simba SC football club of Tanzania, scheduled to hold at the Zaria Road Stadium in Jos, Governor Simon Lalong on Wednesday visited the team during their training session in Jos. Lalong while addressing the players and technical… November 25, 2020 In "Sports" Bragging rights is a key component in sports all over the world. Athletes in various disciplines strive to achieve excellence to boost their rating which is a pride for them and the country as a whole. We believe bragging rights is more prevalent in football at club and national team… November 20, 2020 In "Editorial"