unveils Nigeria’s first electric car, Hyundai Kona Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday assured Lagosians that the state government would complete the ongoing construction of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway. He said his government was committed to the construction of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, saying the delay of work on the road was based on the government’s plan to build a first-class infrastructure that people would be proud of when completed. Speaking at the unveiling of Hyundai Kona, Nigeria’s first locally assembled electric car in Nigeria at Ojo in Lagos State yesterday, Sanwo-Olu said the Lagos-Badagry Expressway when completed will last for about 30 to 40 years. Meanwhile, Sanwo-Olu yesterday unveiled Nigeria’s first electric car named Hyundai Kona. The unveiling was organised by Stallion Group, a company that represents Honda, Hyundai, Nissan, Volkswagen, Porsche, Audi, Skoda, Changan, Ashok Leyland through independent management in Nigeria. The new Kona, an Electric car regarded by European motoring journalists as world’s number one was unveiled by Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu with lots of enthusiasm at the VON, Automobiles Nigeria located in Ojo area of state where the car was manufactured. Speaking during the unveiling, Sanwo-Olu commended Stallion Group for the noble initiative, just as he promised that Lagos State Government will make provisions for vehicle charging points across the state, to make it easy for users to enjoy their Electric Vehicles (EV). He observed that VON had made over 40 to 50 years of vehicle manufacturing history. He said: “Lagos-Badagry Expressway will be completed from two lanes to 10 lanes.   Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, recently visited Badagry, during which he toured some facilities and project sites in the area, including the state-owned Avia Organic Farm, which he promised to resuscitate in order to boost food production     It was a heroic welcome for the governor of Lagos… August 18, 2020 In "Politics" A human right activist, Mr. Ekudina Ibrahim, has said Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State is a trustworthy personality, whose words and promises can be trusted. Ibrahim, who is the Convener of Movement for a Better Lagos, made the remarks in a statement to express confidence that the problematic… July 11, 2020 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu will unveil 2,160 housing units by the first quarter of 2021 just as the state government would embark on aggressive rehabilitation of the state government’s owned dilapidated estates across the state. Commissioner for Housing, Mr. Akinderu Fatai, who disclosed this, said that the government… August 27, 2020 In "News"