 Paul Pogba “cannot be happy” with the situation he finds himself in at Manchester United, the France manager, Didier Deschamps, has said.
The midfielder has started four of United’s seven Premier League games this season and one of three in the Champions League. Pogba’s future at Old Trafford remains uncertain after he suggested last month that he “dreams” of playing for Real Madrid, reports Reuters.
“He is in a situation with his club where he cannot be happy, neither with his playing time, nor with his positioning,” Deschamps said. “He is not in his best period. He has had a series of injuries and Covid-19, which has hit him quite hard. He needs to find his rhythm.
“With me, there is no such concern. When a player is in discomfort in his club, he is happy to play for France. He will tell me about his feelings and, as I know him very well, it will go in a positive direction.”
Deschamps was speaking before France’s friendly against Finland on Wednesday. They face Portugal and Sweden in the UEFA Nations League on November 14 and 17.  Paul Pogba has been left out of France's squad for the Nations League games against Sweden and Croatia after testing positive for coronavirus. The news was confirmed by France head coach Didier Deschamps after he announced the squad for the games, reports Sky News. Deschamps said: "I had to… August 27, 2020 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is hopeful Paul Pogba will sign a new Manchester United contract and play an important role in the club's future success. Pogba has long been linked with a move to Real Madrid or former side Juventus, and even admitted himself last year that he was looking for… July 9, 2020 In "Sports" Donny van de Beek is still the only Manchester United signing this summer and the Dutch will look forward to starting his first English Premier League tie when the Red Devils host Tottenham today (Saturday). The midfielder knew he was going to fight for his place in the starstudded United… October 3, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"