A Magistrates’ Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, yesterday remanded two young ladies at Ilesa Correctional Centre for alleged attempt to murder Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. The accused, Tajudeen Suliyat (20) and AbdulAzeez Ayomide (20), were arraigned on a five-count charge bordering on conspiracy, attempted murder, malicious damage, burglary and stealing. The police prosecutor, ASP John Idoko, said the defendants and some others, still at large, conspired and attempted to kill the Osun State Gover nor, Oyetola, by firing guns and throwing stones at him. They were alleged to have committed the crime on October 17, 2020, about 4.30pm, at Olaiya Junction, Osogbo. The prosecutor alleged that the duo of Suliyat and Ayomide did unlawfully damage 17 vehicles in the governor’s convoy. They were also alleged to have burgled Osun Mall to steal laptops, mobile phones and phone accessories valued at N3,568,000 million, property of Ashiru Ibrahim Olayemi. Having pleaded not guilty to the allegations against them, the defendants’ counsel, Mr. Nurudeen Kareem, urged the court to release his clients on bail, pending the determination of the matter. But the prosecution opposed the bail application on the grounds that the defendants might jeopardise police investigation. The Magistrate, Dr. Olusegun Ay i l a r a , thereby ordered the remand of the defendants at Ilesa Correctional Centre and adjourned the case till November 20, 2020, for ruling on bail application.   Osun State Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, yesterday disclosed that 87 suspects were arrested in connection with the looting of shops and offices on Saturday. The Deputy Commissioner of Police in Charge of State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Adebola Hamzat, who paraded the suspects, told journalists that some… October 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" A Magistrates' Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, yesterday remanded three persons in a correctional centre for an alleged murder.   The defendants are Aishat Mutiu (21), Oyewale Segun (22) and Ijaye Shola (22). The police prosecutor, Mr. John Idoko, alleged that the defendants conspired with others,… November 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State has blamed political thugs for the attack on his convoy at the venue of #EndSARS protest in Osogbo, on Saturday. He, however, vowed that the thugs will be fished out and brought to book. Oyetola, in a state broadcast yesterday, condoled with families of… October 19, 2020 In "News"