 Johnny Depp has lost his libel case against The Sun newspaper over an article that called him a “wife beater”.
Depp, 57, sued the paper over the article which claimed he assaulted his ex-wife Amber Heard, which he denies. The Sun said the article was accurate.
Judge Mr Justice Nicol said The Sun had proved what was in the article to be “substantially true”.
A spokesperson for The Sun said it had stood up for domestic abuse victims, reports the BBC.
The trial was heard over 16 days in July at the Royal Courts of Justice in London.
The judge said: “Although he has proved the necessary elements of his cause of action in libel, the defendants have shown that what they published in the meaning which I have held the words to bear was substantially true.
“I have reached these conclusions having examined in detail the 14 incidents on which the defendants rely, as well as the over-arching considerations which the claimant submitted I should take into account.”  Hollywood star Johnny Depp began legal action against a British tabloid on Tuesday over allegations he had physically abused his ex-wife, the actress Amber Heard, accusing her of lying and conducting extra-marital affairs. Depp, the 57-year-old star of the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films, is suing The Sun's publisher,… July 7, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" American actress Amber Heard told London's High Court that her ex-husband Johnny Depp had threatened to kill her, as she appeared on Monday as a witness against the Hollywood star in his libel action against a British tabloid newspaper. Depp is suing News Group Newspapers, publishers of the Sun… July 20, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomole has sought for an out-of-court settlement in the N10 billion libel suit instituted against him by the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom. Comrade Oshiomole in the early days of the suit had filed six preliminary objections which the court… October 14, 2020 In "News"