 Due to the government and health experts directives on coronavirus safety protocols on social distancing, ban on large gatherings, the 2020 edition of the Idoma International Carnival will not be at full tilt, organisers of the biggest street party in north of the Niger have said.
The Carnival is an annual event held in Otukpo in Benue State, Nigeria, with the aim of showcasing to the world the rich social, cultural and economic endowments of the Idoma nation through art, craft and social exhibitions. One of the core objectives of the carnival is to give back to society
However, the negative impact of COVID-19 has made life extremely difficult for people all over the world and the Idoma nation is not an exception.
To  cushion the effects of the lockdown and to identify with the people, the Idoma International Carnival 2020 will hold a special programme tagged ‘OHIGBU ACHOLALO’ (for the sake of our people) to share palliatives to the most vulnerable and the poorest of the poor in Idoma Land.
The President of the carnival,  Prince Edwin Ochai, noted that the decision to tune down this year’s Carnival was a painful one which was done after due consultation with various stakeholders of the annual event.
He said: “The COVID-19 pandemic has seriously affected every sector of the economy including the entertainment industry.”
Prince Ochai further observed that: “It will be insensitive to go ahead with the usual fanfare, the glitz and glamour to mark the Idoma International Carnival.”
The carnival CEO further explained that activities such as street party, road shows, beauty pageant and other activities associated with the carnival shall not feature in the 2020 edition.
Rather, “the event will be on a low key in solidarity  with our people especially those who have lost loved ones during the period,” the philanthropist noted.
The carnival, which started in 2013, has been consistent in its mandate and aims of promoting, empowering and uniting the Idoma Nation across religious and political affiliations.  CEPHAS IORHEMEN reports on the move by political leaders across the three senatorial districts of Benue State to have their respective areas produce the next governor of the state in 2023   The battle over who succeeds the incumbent governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, has commenced in earnest with… October 6, 2020 In "Politics" MAKURDI     Indication emerged yesterday that the former Deputy Governor to immediate-past governor of Benue State, Senator Gabriel Suswam between 2007 to 2015, Chief Steven Lawani may have joined the race for the governorship election in the state come 2023.   Also, the main challenger of former Senate President,… October 11, 2020 In "News" A chieftain of Idoma Community in Benue State, Prince Emmanuel Idakwo has decried the spate of political alienation of the Idoma race in the state.   In a statement personally signed by Prince Idakwo and made available to journalists, he demanded for power shift to Idoma people in 2023.  … July 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"