Adewale Momoh, Akure  Governor of Ondo State, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), has removed Adekola Olawoye (SAN,) as the Commissioner of Justice and Attorney-General of the state and replaced him with Charles Titiloye. According to the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Segun Ajiboye, in a statement issued on Monday, Titiloye’s name will be forwarded to the state House of Assembly for confirmation. Titiloye, who was a former Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Akure Branch, is a human rights activist and a social critic in the state. The statement reads: “Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) has rejigged his cabinet. “Following this, he has appointed front line human rights lawyer, Sir Charles Titiloye as his new Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice. “Titiloye is a human right activist and a renowned social critic. He was former Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Akure Branch. “A devout Christian, Charles Titiloye is a Knight of the Catholic Church of the order of Saint Mulumba. “His name will be forwarded to the state House of Assembly for confirmation. “Mr. Governor thanks the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice that has just been removed for services rendered to the state. “He wishes him success in his future endeavours.”  As the people of Ondo State file out today, to elect the person that will direct the affairs of the state in the next four years, 17 candidates will be on the ballot. ADEWALE MOMOH takes a look at some of the contenders. With the current political reality in Ondo… October 10, 2020 In "Politics" Twelve aspirants, including Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, will today battle for the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the October 10 election in Ondo State. ADEWALE MOMOH X-rays the 12 gladiators and their chances at the shadow poll     The political atmosphere in Ondo State could… July 20, 2020 In "Politics" ...doctors abandon patients at Ondo IDH   Adewale Momoh Akure Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has tested negative for COVID-19. Akeredolu disclosed his negative status yesterday during his weekly briefing on the pandemic in the state.   The governor, who spoke via Facebook live monitored by New Telegraph, said… July 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"