The Senate, yesterday, commenced a process for the amendment of Tertiary Education Trust Fund Act 2007, geared towards making the Nigerian Law Schools, beneficiaries of Education Tax Funds. Consequently, a bill the apex legislative assembly passed for second reading, “A bill for an Act to amend the Tertiary Education Trust Fund Act 2007”. Sponsor of the bill, Senator Micheal Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti Central), while leading debate on the proposal, said that the bill sought to amend sections 4, 7 and 20 of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (Establishment, Etc.) Act, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act). According to him, the amendment also seeks to add the Nigerian Law School, as one of the benefiting tertiary institutions in Nigeria, for the purpose of disbursement of education tax, under the Act. His words : “Mr President, distinguished colleagues; by way of a proper context and historical basis for the proposed amendment, it is imperative to state here that the Report of the Unsworth Committee on Legal Education, which recommended the establishment of an indigenous law school for the vocational training of aspiring legal practitioners in Nigeria, conceived the Nigerian Law School, as a tertiary institution with the sole mandate of bridging the gap between academic study of law in Nigerian or foreign universities, and the practical application of the law. “Based on this, it therefore becomes incumbent on the Nigerian Law School to ensure that students adapt their academic knowledge to the conditions of practice by introducing them to the practical skills and techniques of legal practice.   …drops 2% Education Tax ...mulls creation of Crisis Intervention Fund The Federal Executive Council (FEC) chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday approved the 2020 Finance Bill. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, who briefed State House Correspondents, explained that the 2020 Finance Bill would support the 2021… November 19, 2020 In "News" •It guarantees safety of our students – Lawan The Senate yesterday passed a bill for an Act to prevent, prohibit and redress sexual harassment of students in the nation's tertiary educational institutions. The bill, which was sponsored by the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo- Agege (APC - Delta… July 8, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), yesterday, implored the Senate to remove some alleged anti-labour clauses inherent in the six aviation bills it was currently considering for passage, to amend laws establishing aviation agencies in the country.   President of NLC, Ayuba Wabba, made the call in Abuja while presenting the … November 18, 2020 In "News"