 Pauline Onyibe,Yenagoa Unidentified persons have attacked oil facilities operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and Nigerian Agip Oil Company
(NAOC) at Ikarama community in Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State damaging the pipelines.
Ben Warder, a youth leader in Ikarama on Tuesday said that residents heard several sounds from the explosions that rocked the oil fields on Monday but were too scared to approach the area.
He said “The site is not far from Ikarama. We heard sounds from the blast and it sounded like dynamite and it was not safe to go near so when the situation became quiet, we had to trace what happened and it
turned out that Shell’s gas pipeline and Agip’s crude lines were
destroyed.
“The incident caused air pollution which members of the affected communities are battling to cope with.”
Confirming the incident, Michael Adande, the SPDC Spokesman explained that the oil firm had received reports of the incident and shut down the facility to curtail negative impact on the environment.  The Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) yesterday said it has grown its oil output to an average of 514,000 barrels per day (bpd) and developed additional capacity to produce more. The production data was disclosed by the Chairman of Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor during the oil firm’s 2020… September 17, 2020 In "News" Oil producing communities are currently fighting to be duly recognized by the government and oil majors in the scheme of things. They want governments to give them a share of the wealth. PAULINE ONYIBE reports from Yenagoa Since oil was struck in the Southern part of Nigeria in Oloibiri community,… November 13, 2020 In "News" IIndigenes of OML 79 host communities in Ekeremor and Southern Ijaw Local Government Areas of Bayelsa State have urged the Federal Government, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), and her Joint Ventures (JV), to ignore any purported 21-day ultimatum from a section of the communities and go on with their operations… August 5, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"