 Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin A fatal auto crash has claimed four lives in Offa in Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State.
The auto crash, which happened around 10:27 am on Wednesday along the Offa-Ojoku road, involved one Toyota Camry saloon car and a tricycle also known as Keke NAPEP.
It was learnt that the Camry driven by an auto-mechanic, rammed into the tricycle killing three of the occupants and a female
roadside trader.
An eyewitness account revealed that some students of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, who were also in the tricycle sustained injuries in the accident.
It was also gathered that an irate mob torched the car and burnt it to ashes.
Confirming the incident, Kwara State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Jonathan Owoade said the deceased had been deposited at the General Hospital, Offa.
He added that the accident occurred around Awraba Hotel junction, saying that the accident involved eight persons.
Owoade said the other four persons injured are also receiving treatment at the same hospital.  An auto accident involving three vehicles and a tricycle has claimed the lives of two junior secondary students in Ilorin, Kwara State. About five other people also sustained serious injuries in the accident. The accident occurred at Gaa Odota area on the Ilorin-Ogbomoso highway, opposite Alade Fill ing Station. The… October 9, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin A fatal auto accident, which occurred at Otte village along Ilorin-Ogbomosho express road in Kwara State, has claimed the lives of four persons. Seven persons, three males and four females, reportedly suffered varying degrees of injuries in the accident. The accident, according to an eyewitness,… January 24, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin   Twenty people have reportedly lost their lives in a ghastly multiple auto crash at Olokonla, along Bode-Saadu-Jebba Expressway in Moro Local Government Area of Kwara State. Seventeen of the 20 were reported to have been burnt beyond recognition in the auto crash. One person, however,… January 30, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"