as Adegoke aims to dethrone Quadra   Two -time champion Sarah Adegoke is determined to reclaim her women singles title from holder Oyinlomo Quadre as the Central Bank of Nigeria promises to keep supporting the CBN Tennis tournament which got underway in Abuja on Monday.  Adegoke lost the opportunity to claim the crown for the third consecutive time since Osaro Amadin last achieved that feat when she didn’t win the 2018 edition and the former junior champion was also absent at the 2019 tourney which was won by Quadre. Adegoke is back in action after being away for some time now and she is optimistic of her chances of dethroning her younger national teammate.  “To play her [Oyinlomo Quadre] will be very interesting, its something i am looking forward to. She’s a very young player and she’s been doing well this past couple of years and honestly i adore her game on and off the court. So sharing a court with her sometimes soon will be a dream come through for me because right now she’s on fire and I’d love to play the persons who’s fire”.  Meanwhile, Ag Director, Corporate Communications Department, of the CBN, Osita Nwanisobi, speaking on behalf of the bank’s Governor, Godwin Emefiele,said the championship had over the years served as a good platform in taking Nigerian youths off the streets   The 42nd edition of the Central Bank of Nigeria Senior Open Tennis Championship will take place between November 6 and 14, in Abuja. The annual hardcourt event is a convergence of the best tennis stars in the country who will compete in the men’s singles, women’s singles, men’s doubles, women’s… November 7, 2020 In "Sports" ...as rising COVID-19 cases forces reduction of number of fans Recently crowned US Open champion Naomi Osaka has withdrawn from the French Open in another serious blow to organisers of the tournament in Paris. Osaka, who claimed her third grand slam title in New York last week, is struggling with a hamstring… September 18, 2020 In "Sports" Japanese tennis star Naomi Osaka has pulled out of a major tennis tournament in New York in a protest over the police shooting of Jacob Blake. "As a black woman I feel as though there are much more important matters at hand that need immediate attention, rather than watching… August 27, 2020 In "Sports"