The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, has joined other world leaders to congratulate the United States of America President- elect, Mr. Joe Biden, saying the victory was well-deserved. Adams in his congratulatory letter signed personally described Biden’s victory as a hard, long walk to victory, admitting that American celebration was really worth the battle. He said: “Americans have spoken through their votes. They knew what you stood for, in terms of your courage, and commitment to the American dream. “As a former vice president and president-elect of the biggest democracy in the world, you aren’t a greenhorn in America and world politics and I believe you know quite well that the task ahead is daunting, huge and herculean. “I am happy the world applauded your efforts, determination and eventual victory.” Adams also advised Biden to be magnanimous in victory, saying the transition will herald a window of opportunities for Africa and the black. He added: “As you prepare ahead for a successful transition, my humble advice to you is to be magnanimous in victory. “You can also achieve  President-elect Joe Biden declared victory in the US presidential race on Saturday and called for Americans to come together after years of partisan rancor. “The people of this nation have spoken. They’ve delivered us a convincing victory. A clear victory,” Biden told the crowd of supporters in his hometown of Wilmington,… November 8, 2020 In "News" Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu has congratulated the candidate of the Democratic Party, Joe Biden, who emerged winner of the Presidential election in the United States of America (USA). Describing the victory of Biden as victory for the world, Kalu… November 8, 2020 In "News" US President Donald Trump has accused Democrats of voting "shenanigans" as the result from Tuesday's White House election hangs in the balance. His Democratic challenger Joe Biden earlier appealed for calm as the nail-biting count drags on in five states, reports the BBC. While clinging to wafer-thin leads in… November 6, 2020 In "News"