  Pope Francis has remembered Diego Maradona in his prayers after learning of the soccer legend’s death on Wednesday, the Vatican said.
Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said that the pope, after being informed of Maradona’s death, “thinks back fondly to the times they met in these years and remembers him in prayer.” He said that Francis had also prayed for Maradona in recent days when he learned about his health problems, reports The Associated Press.
Vatican News, the Holy See’s media arm, referred to Maradona as the “poet of soccer.”
The Argentine-born pope, an avid soccer fan, especially of Argentine team San Lorenzo, met with Maradona at the Vatican in 2014 during a special audience in connection to a charity match soccer. On that occasion, Maradona presented the pontiff with a soccer jersey, emblazoned with the name “Francisco” — Spanish for Francis — and Maradona’s signature No. 10.
The two met again in 2015. Francis hasn’t been in his homeland since 2013, when he flew to Rome for the conclave that would elect him as pontiff.
Vatican News called Maradona an “extraordinary soccer player, a fragile man,” saying his life was marked in various moments “by the plague of drugs.”  Tributes are pouring in for the legendary footballer Diego Maradona, who has died at the age of 60. Former England star Gary Lineker, who famously played against Maradona in the World Cup quarter-final in 1986, described his opponent as "the best player of my generation and arguably the greatest of all… November 26, 2020 In "Sports" It became the most iconic sporting comment of all time but the English-speaking world very nearly did not get to hear Diego Maradona's pithy reflection on his infamous goal in Argentina's 2-1 defeat of England at the 1986 World Cup in Mexico. Reuters sports correspondent Rex Gowar was in… November 26, 2020 In "Sports" Former Pope Benedict XVI, the first pontiff in 600 years to resign instead of ruling for life, is seriously ill, a German newspaper reported on Monday. The newspaper, Passauer Neue Presse, cited Benedict's biographer, German author Peter Seewald, who met the 93-year-old emeritus pope at the Vatican on Saturday.… August 3, 2020 In "News"