 Portugal will impose localised night-time curfews from Monday to contain the spread of the coronavirus as the number of cases reached a record high, Prime Minister Antonio Costa announced in the early hours of Sunday.
“We cannot have the slightest doubt that everything must be done to contain the pandemic,” Costa told a news conference. “If we fail to do so, we must increasingly adopt more restrictive measures and compromise the month of December.”
The overnight curfew, from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., will come into force across 121 of the country’s 308 municipalities, including Lisbon and Porto, on Monday as the country enters a 15-day state of emergency. Night workers are exempted, reports Reuters.
Costa also announced those in the 121 municipalities – home to about 70% of Portugal’s population – will not be able to leave their homes between 1 p.m. and 5 a.m. during the next two weekends – on both Saturday and Sunday.
Some commercial outlets will close during these times but restaurants will be allowed to provide takeaway services, Costa said, admitting the weekend measure will inevitably hit the sector hard.
The initial state of emergency, which under Portuguese law can be extended indefinitely in 15-day periods, was declared in March and lasted six weeks. It restricted the movement of people and led thousands of businesses to suspend activities.
Portugal, with just over 10 million people, has recorded a comparatively low 173,540 cases and 2,848 deaths but it reached 6,640 cases on Saturday, the highest daily figure since the pandemic started. Testing has also increased.
A total of 2,420 people are in hospital, with 366 in intensive care units (ICUs) – more than the April peak of 271.
The healthcare system, which prior to the pandemic had the lowest number of critical care beds per 100,000 inhabitants in Europe, can accommodate 800 COVID-19 patients in ICUs.  Violent protests broke out across Italy on Monday over new restrictions to curb the country's second wave of Covid. Clashes were reported in several major cities - including Turin, where Molotov cocktails were thrown at officers. In Milan tear gas was used to disperse protesters, while violence was also… October 27, 2020 In "News" French President Emmanuel Macron has announced that people must stay indoors from 21:00 to 06:00 in Paris and eight other cities to try to curb the rapid spread of coronavirus in the country. The curfew will come into effect from Saturday and last for at least four weeks, Macron… October 14, 2020 In "Top Stories" Madrid will become the first European capital to go back into lockdown in coming days after the region's leader reluctantly agreed on Thursday to obey a central government order to ban non-essential travel to and from the Spanish capital. In order to fight a steep surge in COVID-19 cases,… October 2, 2020 In "News"