 Struggling Manchester United star Paul Pogba has been told he ‘will be happy again’ if he returns to Juventus by Old Lady legend Claudio Marchisio.
Pogba has admitted to going through the most ‘difficult period’ of his career in recent weeks, with the 27-year-old regularly left out of the Red Devils’ starting team due to his lack of form, goal.com reports.
Marchisio, who spent 25 years in the Juve system and played with Pogba during the Frenchman’s stint in Turin between 2012-16, believes his former protege can achieve happiness if he comes back to Juventus Stadium.
“Please Paul Pogba – Come to Juventus….you will be happy again. Me too,” Marchisio tweeted in response to a post on the social media platform from Pogba.
Along with Real Madrid, Pogba’s former club have been consistently linked with a transfer for the midfielder in recent years, with the France international struggling for consistency in his second stint at Old Trafford.
His national team boss Didier Deschamps believes the struggles Pogba is having at Manchester United are affecting his performances at international level.
“He’s not in his best form, of course. I knew that before the game,” Deschamps told the media after France’s 2-0 loss to Finland.
“This match was meant to give him some rhythm. He knew that he would only play for an hour.
“It’s hard to remember to be positive. Obviously, he’s not in one of his better periods.
“Like all players who have a club situation that is not positive, they are also impacted mentally. I know him well enough and it can happen at some points.”
Pogba has appeared for Manchester United in 11 matches this season, but six of them have been as subsitute appearances, with Bruno Fernandes preferred in an attacking midfield role and Scott McTominay and Fred selected as the holding midfielders.
He admitted to going through the most ‘difficult’ period of his career in England, but revealed his time with France has been a welcome relief.
“I had never known such a difficult period in my career,” he said in an interview with RTL.
“The France team is a breath of fresh air, the group is exceptional, it’s magic.”  Paul Pogba’s future at Manchester United this summer remains in doubt. The midfielder has intimated a willingness to stay with United and sign a new contract. But Bleacher Report says Real Madrid and former club Juventus are convinced Pogba can still be tempted away from United this smmer. Real… July 31, 2020 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is hopeful Paul Pogba will sign a new Manchester United contract and play an important role in the club's future success. Pogba has long been linked with a move to Real Madrid or former side Juventus, and even admitted himself last year that he was looking for… July 9, 2020 In "Sports" Paul Pogba has said he would love to play for Real Madrid one day but his focus is on helping Manchester United improve on their poor start to the Premier League season. The 27-year-old admitted in 2019 that he wanted to leave United but no major offers came in for him and he… October 9, 2020 In "Sports"