 International Olympic Committee (IOC) chief Thomas Bach expressed confidence on Monday that the Tokyo Games will be held successfully next year, even allowing spectators to attend, as the world grapples with a sharp rise in coronavirus infections.
Bach’s two-day visit to Tokyo is likely to bolster Japan’s efforts to stage the Olympics, but will do little to assuage the concerns of a public deeply worried about the spread of the virus, reports Reuters.
The IOC president spent the day with the Tokyo organisers discussing how to stage the massive sporting event during an unprecedented pandemic and ensure safety for a gathering of more than 11,000 international athletes.
The visit is Bach’s first to the Japanese capital since he and former prime minister Shinzo Abe decided in March to postpone the 2020 Games to next year.
On Monday, Bach fist-bumped with Japan’s new premier, Yoshihide Suga, and told Tokyo governor Yuriko Koike they could be confident a vaccine would be available by next summer.
The IOC will arrange to ensure vaccination of both participants and visitors before they arrive in Japan, he added.
“In order to protect the Japanese people, and out of respect for the Japanese people, the IOC will undertake great effort so that … the Olympic participants and visitors will arrive here vaccinated if, by then, a vaccine is available,” he said.
At a news conference later, Bach said he would not make vaccination a requirement for Games participants, however.
News of a potentially successful vaccine from Pfizer Inc has lifted hopes for the staging of the Games, but public opinion in Japan remains mixed.
Nearly 60% of respondents in a November poll by TV Asahi said the event should be further postponed or canceled.
After meeting Koike, Bach approached a handful of protesters who were holding banners and using loudspeakers to press their demand for cancellation of the Olympics.
“Do you want to speak or do you want to shout?” he asked, as security guards stood between him and one protester. But the protesters rebuffed his offer of dialogue, Bach told the news conference.
Last week Japan reported record new daily cases, sparking concerns of a third wave of infections, although it has mostly avoided the high death tolls recorded elsewhere.
Bach called next year’s games a “light at the end of the tunnel” after the world’s pandemic battle, and pointed to recent sporting competitions in Japan as proof that events could already take place safely, saying the IOC was now “very confident” that spectators would be able to attend the Games.
But he told reporters it was not realistic to put a figure on the cost of the postponement until next year’s virus precautions are ascertained.
This month, Tokyo successfully hosted an international gymnastics meet at which organisers tested a range of COVID-19 countermeasures.
During his visit to Tokyo, Bach also awarded Abe the Olympic Order in gold, the IOC’s highest accolade.
When premier, Abe made himself all but synonymous with Tokyo 2020, even famously appearing as video game character Mario at the closing ceremony of the Rio Games in 2016.
Abe played a critical role in Tokyo’s bid to win the Olympics, making the campaign a national priority.
A few years later, a French investigation into doping by Russian athletes revealed evidence of two payments totally $2.3 million by the Tokyo bidding committee to a little-known Singaporea firm, Black Tidings.
France is investigating if that money was used to win the backing of an influential IOC member for Japan to host the 2020 Games.  *Games to begin July 23, 2021 The postponed Tokyo Olympic Games will go ahead next year "with or without Covid", the vice-president of the International Olympic Committee says. John Coates confirmed to news agency AFP that the Olympics would start on July 23 next year, calling them the "Games that… September 7, 2020 In "Sports" A vaccine is not a requirement for holding next year’s postponed Olympics and Paralympics, the CEO of the Tokyo Games, Toshiro Muto said Friday. Muto was speaking after a task force meeting with government officials, disease experts and Japanese Olympic officials. It’s the first of several high-level meetings dealing… September 5, 2020 In "Sports" The Vice-President of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has suggested Iran are unlikely to be banned despite growing calls for their expulsion following the execution of wrestling champion Navid Afkari. John Coates, who is also the President of the Australian Olympic Committee, revealed he had spoken to IOC President… September 16, 2020 In "Sports"