 Eight students of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, were abducted during an attack on motorists along the Kaduna-Abuja road on Sunday.
Many people were abducted in the incident that reportedly led to the deaths of two persons.
Police sources said that Kabiru Bala, vice-chancellor of ABU, reported the abduction of the students at the area command of the police in Zaria.
The students, from the department of French, were traveling to Lagos for a programme at the Nigerian French Language Village (NFLV), Badagry, when the suspected bandits struck.
“The vice-chancellor of ABU, Zaria, reported to the Zaria area command that eight students of the French Department were kidnapped,” the source said.
“The names of the students are: Okafor Chris, Ayuba Lois, John Elizabeth, Musa Precious, Asoji Faith, Badmus Jemimah, Emmanuel Simon and Aliyu Adamu.”
Two of the students were said to have been rescued by security personnel on Sunday.
The source said efforts were being made to rescue the remaining students in captivity, reports online newspaper, TheCable.  Doctor abducted in Kogi   Armed men yesterday invaded the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Kaduna State and abducted a lecturer, his wife and daughter. This came barely 24 hours after nine students of the university, who were kidnapped on the Kaduna-Abuja Highway, were released.   Also, gunmen have abducted… November 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" At least eight travellers abducted in Kaduna about a month ago have been rescued by men of the Kaduna State Police Command. The travellers were abducted along the Zaria-Kaduna Expressway aboard a luxurious bus on 28th February, 2021 en route Delta State, the spokesman of the Kaduna State Police Command,… March 31, 2021 In "News" Gunmen yesterday abducted two female nurses in Kaduna State and 18 passengers inside a commercial bus in Oyo State. The armed men invaded a General Hospital, Idon in Kajuru Local Government Area of Southern Kaduna in Kaduna State and kidnapped two nurses. The hospital is located on the Kaduna-Kachia Road.… April 23, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"