Leaders of the world’s 20 biggest economies yesterday endorsed a plan to extend a freeze in official debt service payments by the poorest countries to mid-2021 and backed a common approach for dealing with their debt problems.  According to Reuters, the Group of 20 leaders, in a joint statement, also strongly encouraged private creditors to take part in the initiative on comparable terms and said they were keeping an eye on the special challenges facing African and small island states.  The G20 debt relief initiative – launched shortly after the start of the pandemic in the spring – has helped 46 of 73 eligible countries defer $5.7 billion in 2020 debt service payments, freeing up funds for countries to fight the pandemic and shore up their economies.  But lack of privatesector participation and countries’ concerns about marring future access to capital markets have limited the success of the debt freeze, which was initially projected to generate some $12 billion in extra liquidity.  Some big creditor countries, including China, also failed to include all stateowned institutions, such as the China Development Bank, in responding to requests for debt relief.  The COVID-19 crisis has exacerbated concerns about high debt levels affecting not just low-income countries, but some middleincome states as well. International Monetary Fund (IMF), Managing Director, Kristalina Georgieva, called for prompt and effective implementation of the debt treatment framework to provide permanent debt relief to the poorest countries, but said other countries also needed help.  “Going forward, we must also help those countries not covered by the framework to address debt vulnerabilities so that their economies can become more resilient,” Georgieva said in a statement after addressing G20 leaders.  The G20 Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI), which allows poor countries to suspend payments on official bilateral debt owed to G20 creditors until the end of the year, was extended by a further six months. The announcement came following a virtual meeting of Finance ministers and central bank governors from… October 15, 2020 In "Business" The Group of 20 major economies, at the weekend, said they are looking at structural approaches to secure longerterm financing for developing countries, including development of domestic capital markets and work to catalyze private sector investment.   In a statement, the Saudi G20 secretariat said 46 countries had applied for… September 28, 2020 In "Business" Leaders of the 20 biggest world economies (G20) will debate this weekend how to deal with the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic that has caused a global recession and how to manage the recovery once the coronavirus is under control. High on the agenda are purchases and global distribution of vaccines,… November 21, 2020 In "News"