 Officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps have allegedly attacked Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIO) in Abuja.
A statement from the Media Assistant to the NSCDC Commandant General, Ekunola Gbenga, made this known, adding that an investigation had begun into the matter.
The statement was titled, ‘CG-NSCDC orders speedy investigation into attack on VIO officers’.
It noted that the incident occurred at Kugbo slope area of Abuja on Tuesday.
The statement reads in part: “The Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu, has ordered a speedy and comprehensive investigation into the circumstances surrounding the attack on the men of Vehicle Inspection Officers by officers of the Corps.
“While the investigation is ongoing on the matter, the CG has temporarily suspended the officers involved, seized their vehicle, and detained the driver, and assured that everything humanly possible will be done to ensure that justice prevails in the case.
“The Commandant General, therefore, apologises to management and men of VIO and assured them of the Corps maximum cooperation and support in discharging their constitutional duties.”  The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has sacked Illiya Ibrahim, corps assistant, who was seen partaking in the looting of a warehouse in the federal capital territory (FCT). On Monday, a mob attacked a warehouse at Gwagwalada area council of Abuja, carting away food items. The warehouse… October 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), has unveiled its plans to build a zonal office in Owerri, the Imo State capital. Governor Hope Uzodimma, who revealed this after his official visit to the Commandant General of the NSCDC, Abdullahi Gana Mohammed at his Abuja office on Wednesday said… August 14, 2020 In "News" The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have said it has stepped up its fight against rape and other criminal activities across the country.   Only recently, the United Nations Women declared that rape had become another form of pandemic ravaging Nigeria. Commandant General of Nigeria Security and Civil… July 19, 2020 In "News"