The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said a total of 5, 305 ad hoc staff would conduct the Bayelsa Central and West senatorial by-elections on December 5.  Acting Chairman, AVM Ahmed Muazu, at a stakeholders meeting in Yenagoa yesterday, said the election will hold in three Local Government Areas in Bayelsa Central and two in Bayelsa West.  According to the Acting Chairman, out of 418,109 registered voters in Bayelsa Central, about 395,554 collected their permanent voters cards (PVCs).  “In this regard, the commission will deploy a total of 3,589 election staff,” Muazu stated.  He added that 229,022 out of 234,649 registered voters in Bayelsa West collected their PVCs.  “The commission will deploy a total of 1,716 election staff. “The commission will activate and deploy the z-pads for the purposes of real time uploading of Forms EC8A (PollingUnitResults) usingthe INEC Result Viewing Portal. “We are committed to transparency and accountability in the electoral process and will keep upgrading the processes and procedures of the commission to achieve free, fair and safe elections,” he said.  Muazu noted that the by-elections will be the first major outing since the temporary exit of the Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and the other National Commissioners.  • All eyes on us, we can't afford to fail –INEC chairman • Our govs' lives in danger –PDP • NSCDC deploys more men Amid tension and palpable fears, many people in Edo State will today file out to exercise their franchise, in an election that is tension soaked. Fears… September 19, 2020 In "News" • Parties spend billions to woo voters • Vote-buying has become a pandemic–Civil Society Situation Room • NSCDC deploys sniffer dogs,over 7,000 personnel for poll • APC chieftain asks court to disqualify Akeredolu, others Four local government areas; Ifedore, Idanre, Irele and Okitipupa, which had been adjudged as battlegrounds, coupled… October 10, 2020 In "News" The introduction of technology in the conduct of elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Nigeria has engendered credibility and sanctity of the electoral process, writes ONYEKACHI EZE       The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is no doubt, on technology revolution. Since the introduction of the… October 11, 2020 In "Politics"