*Three others arrested for scooping fuel  The Police Command in Niger has arrested a father, Abubakar Maibabo, for allegedly killing his two children at Maidabo village in Salka, Nasko Local Government Area. The command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Wasiu Abiodun, disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Minna. Abiodun said that on November 14 at about 2 a.m., Police operatives attached to Nasko Division, arrested the suspect. “The suspect killed his children with a cutlass, one Umar Abubakar, 8, and Shehu Abubakar, 4, while he hid the corpses in the bush in separate sacks. “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime and claimed that the incident was an act of God,’’ Abiodun said. He noted that the corpses were taken to General Hospital Nasko for autopsy while the case was still under investigation. And in a related development, the Police Command has arrested three persons suspected of scooping petroleum products from a vandalised pipeline at Numba-Gwari village in Suleja Local Government Area of the state. The pipeline belonged to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Wasiu Abiodun, disclosed this on Friday in a statement in Minna. Abiodun said on November 13 at about 0900 hours, based on reliable information, Police Operatives attached to ‘A’ Division Suleja arrested the suspects. He named the suspects as Daniel Joshua, 37, Sunday Ezekiel, 33 and Suleiman Madaki, 29, all of Numba-Gwari village in Suleja. “The suspects were arrested while vandalising NNPC pipeline and scooping Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) at Numba-Gwari. “During interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime. “The following exhibits were recovered; six 25 litres jerry cans of  PMS, 48 empty jerry cans, eight drilling bits, one drilling machine, a chisel, a hammer, a shovel, four plastic containers and a funnel,” he said.  Niger State Command of the Nigeria Police have arrested two men, Ibrahim Musa and Sani Musa of Gwacipe village in Gurara Local Government Area for allegedly vandalising a Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, (NNPC), pipeline. Investigations have it that the suspects belong to a three-man gang of petroleum products’ pipeline vandals… July 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Police in Niger State have arrested two persons in connection with the death of an 18-yearold Fulani girl in Lavun local government area of the State. Investigations have it that the suspects, Abdulkadir Ibrahim, age 25 years of Fulani camp Doko Village and Abubakar Idris a.k.a Kullel, age 29… July 18, 2020 In "News" Police operatives attached to Ogbunike police station in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State have arrested a 34-year-old man, Ifeanyi Apusiobi for allegedly killing his two children in their sleep with a pestle and inflicting head wounds on his aged father.   Anambra State Police Command, disclosed in a… June 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"