 Israel’s military has said it launched air strikes against the Syrian army and Iran’s Quds Force in Syria on Wednesday after explosive devices were planted in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.
In a statement, the Israeli military said its planes hit storage facilities, military compounds and Syrian surface-to-air missile batteries.
The Syrian state news agency reported that three military personnel were killed and one was wounded in “Israeli aggression” over Damascus.
Referring to territory inside the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, the Israeli military said: “Earlier, Israel Defence Forces (IDF) troops exposed improvised explosive devices (IEDs) on the Israeli side of the Alpha Line which were placed by a Syrian squad led by Iranian forces, reports Reuters.
“The IEDs’ exposure on Tuesday is further clear proof of the Iranian entrenchment in Syria,” the statement said, adding that Israel holds the Syrian government responsible for all actions perpetrated in Syria.
Israel has launched hundreds of strikes against Iran-linked military targets in Syria over the years but rarely acknowledges or discusses such operations.
Israel seized the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 war and later annexed it in a move not recognised internationally.
Israel views Iran as its greatest threat and says it will not tolerate the establishment of a permanent Iranian military presence in Syria, especially near its borders. Iran is a key ally of Syrian president Bashar Assad in the country’s civil war and has sent military advisers and allied militias to aid his forces.
The Quds Force has been instrumental in directing militia that fought on behalf of Assad throughout Syria’s civil war.  Israeli aircraft struck Syrian military targets on Monday, the Israeli army confirmed in a rare statement. Syrian state media acknowledged the strikes, reporting unspecified "material damage" at military outposts near the capital Damascus, reports the BBC. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said it was retaliation for a bombing attempt.… August 4, 2020 In "News" Two soldiers killed in attacks with targeted bases believed to have a strong presence of Iranian-backed militias. The Syrian army says it has responded to Israeli attacks on southern, central and eastern Syria in which two soldiers were killed in what military defectors and intelligence sources said was a wave… June 24, 2020 In "News" The red, white and cedar green of the Lebanese flag were lit up over a Tel Aviv square on Wednesday in a rare show of Israeli solidarity with Beirut as it reels from a devastating explosion. Israel has been in a technical state of war with Lebanon for generations,… August 6, 2020 In "News"