Poultry farmers in Akwa Ibom State have bemoaned what they described as the scarcity of day-old-chicks despite the existence of Akwa Prime Hatchery and Poultry Limited with a weekly capacity of 200,000 birds. This was as some of the poultry farmers or owners, however, expressed frustration over the logistics challenges they face in the course of bringing day-old-chicks from Kaduna, Enugu and Ibadan, whilethehatchery inaugurated in 2016 by the state government is lying fallow. One of the farmers, Mr. Etoro-Obong Inyang, told newsmen that poultry farmers in the state had never had it so bad in the last 12 years, saying: “For the past 12 years that I have been in poultry farming, this is the first time in years that poultry farmers have been so severely affected by both economic and noneconomic factors of operating poultryfarm. And, quiteunfortunately, nobody is available to offer any explanation. “Farmers have been left at the whims and caprices of owners of the means of productionsincethereseemstobe nogovernmentregulationsfor poultry industry in the state.”  With the negative impacts of COVID-19 on Nigeria’s agriculture currently manifesting, the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), the umbrella body of poultry farmers in Nigeria, has raised the alarm that scarcity of poultry feeds has hit the sector. TAIWO HASSAN reports Indeed, these are not the best of times for… July 3, 2020 In "Business" Maize farmers in Nigeria have assured poultry and fish farmers, including others that the association is working tirelessly to bridge the domestic demand deficit of the commodity with its planned production target of 22 million metric tonnes of maize as it set to reap a bumper harvest of the commodity… September 18, 2020 In "Business" Following Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s directive to foreign exchange (forex) dealers to stop processing ‘Form M’ for importation of maize, the Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN) is set to sign pact with the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN) to boost maize cultivation for poultry feeds. In a memo made… July 17, 2020 In "Business"