 Technology companies have been asked to come up with better visuals around marginal offside calls by world governing body FIFA.
Firms will be sent datasets of different offside incidents and asked to present solutions to FIFA’s Working Group for Innovation Excellence, reports Sky Sports.
The lines used to demonstrate marginal offside calls currently often leave viewers and even pundits confused as to what the correct decision should be, and FIFA clearly hopes a new system can provide greater clarity.
In a separate but related development, three firms are interested in working on the next phase of developing semi-automated technology to assist referees and VARs with the review process on offside decisions.
FIFA said the next phase should take place “as early as possible next year” after delays caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
The group also continues to work on “VAR light”, the aim of which is to create more affordable VAR systems for use at lower levels of the sport.
Offline testing of more cost-efficient technology was conducted by European football’s governing body UEFA, the Asian Football Confederation and the French football federation, FIFA said.
“Based on the discussions and the results of research and testing, a recommendation on the next steps to implement the VAR “light” concept in the world of football will now be presented within FIFA and the IFAB,” a FIFA statement read.  Real Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane took responsibility for "a bad night" as the 13-time European Cup winners were handed a humiliating defeat by a second-string Shakhtar Donetsk side. The Ukrainian champions arrived in Madrid without 13 first-team players after 19 positive Covid-19 tests throughout the club left them needing… October 22, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has hit back at Frank Lampard after his Chelsea counterpart suggested Video Assistant Referees (VAR) have favoured them this season.   Lampard said Manchester United benefited from contentious VAR decisions and poor on-pitch decisions.   He commenting on how a “clear and obvious decision”… July 19, 2020 In "Sports" *Draws for Chelsea, Saints, Everton, Liverpool   Raheem Sterling scored the winner as Manchester City edged past Arsenal to climb up to 10th in the Premier League. England international Sterling finished off a slick team move by drilling in the only goal on 23 minutes. Arsenal had chances to get… October 17, 2020 In "Sports"