Lawyers yesterday condemned the act of the Federal Government freezing the accounts of #Endsars Protest financiers. The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja had on Friday granted an ex-parte application filed by the Central Bank of Nigeria which sought to freeze account of certain individuals which allegedly sponsored the #Endsars Protest.  An Abuja based lawyer, Leye Adeolu stated that FG did not by that act showed any commitment to the peaceful resolution of the agitations of the protesters. “The impression the FG gave was that it wants to attend to the demands of the protesters. For the same government freezing accounts is uncalled for. “The CBN has not done well by instituting such suit. It is a breach of the citizens’ right. Such act can be appealed.  Another lawyer, Clement Ugbade equally condemned the freezing of accounts based on an ex-parte application.  According to him, except where there are statutory provisions otherwise, one fundamental consideration before a court can make or grant an ex parte application, is “balance of convenience.” “If the court had balanced the convenience prior to the grant of the order, such an order ought not to have been granted in the first instance.  “Our institutions should be neutral and independent of the executive arm of government. “What the CBN governor has done is morally and legally wrong. The affected parties should go to court and challenge the orders made as such orders infringe upon their rights to fair hearing as provided for in section 36(1) of the 1999 Constitution as amended”.  Another lawyer, Abdul AbdulGafar noted that the act of the CBN is threat to the nation’s democracy. According to him, “Our democracy is severely threatened. This is unacceptable. It is a disgrace that a country like ours is not allowing democracy to thrive. What it means is that I cannot hold the government accountable as a young person.  “The FG should have a rethink on its action. Peaceful protest is constitutional and as a nation operating a Democratic system of Government, the fundamental rights of citizens should be protected”.  ...as PDP says 'killing saddening' Onyekachi Eze, Abuja Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has ordered investigation into Tuesday evening’s shooting of #EndSARS protesters at Lekki Toll Plaza area of the State. There were reports of massive shooting by security agents at protesters on Tuesday evening at the Lekki Toll Gate,… October 21, 2020 In "News" Govt not behind attack –Commissioner Demonstrators barricade National Assembly FCTA bans streets protests in Abuja Lawyers, students, artists join protests in Delta, Edo, Ebonyi Again, violence erupted in Lagos yesterday as armed thugs unleashed mayhem on the 'End SARS' protesters. The attack occurred at Alausa, the seat of the Lagos… October 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" *Says protesters cost life of pregnant woman Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture on Sunday said that the Federal Government has met with all of the demands made by #EndSARS protesters. He started this on Sunday when he appeared on Radio Nigeria programme in Abuja. According to him,… October 18, 2020 In "Top Stories"