  No fewer than two persons died in an early morning accident on Kara Bridge on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.
According to reports the accident occurred at about 1am on Saturday.
The bridge has witnessed several accident in recent times.
Sources said that a petrol-laden truck crashed at about 1am, with several other trucks and vehicles running into the resulting fire.
Among the vehicles burnt were two trucks owned by Dangote Industries Limited and used cars, popularly known as Tokunbo, which were in a car mart close to the scene of the accident.
The driver of the petrol-bearing truck and his truck boy were burnt to death in the accident, online news portal The Eagle Online is reporting.
Predictably gridlock immediately began, with drivers resorting to driving against traffic.
As at press time, trucks of the Federal Road Safety Corps had arrived at the accident scene.
However, there has been little progress, with traffic having built up well into Lagos State and from the Ogun State end of the expressway into Lagos.  Despite the fact that reconstruction of the Lagos-Ibadan  expressway  has reached 60 per cent completion, current  surge in tanker accidents resulting in damages  of  finished  sections of the road is generating  concerns among stakeholders. Dayo Ayeyemi reports   W hen the Federal Government, led by President Mohammadu Buhari, flagged off… June 30, 2020 In "Business" T hree  people reportedly lost their lives while several others sustained injuries yesterday on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway when a tanker loaded with gas rammed into another tanker and burst into flames.     In all, four trucks were involved in the accident.     Witnesses said the explosion occurred… June 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Olufemi Adediran and Lateef Dada At least 30 people have lost their lives in motor accidents which occurred in Yobe, Osun and Ogun states. Seventeen people were killed in Yobe State, nine died in Osun State while four others lost their lives in the Ogun State accident.   The Federal… October 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"