  Nigeria’s Super Eagles are physically, mentally, psychologically and medically fit for Friday’s AFCON qualifier against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone. COVID-19 tests conducted on every player and official of the team returned negative on Thursday evening, further lifting the spirit of the three-time African champions ahead of the Day 3 of the 2021 AFCON qualification series.
It is the third time in a few weeks that the entire Super Eagles’ delegation would turn in negative results for the dreaded COVID-19, following earlier tests and results ahead of the international friendly matches against Algeria and Tunisia in Austria last month.
Team Captain Ahmed Musa said simply: “This is great news. Now, let us go out there on Friday and get the three points.”
Group L leaders, Nigeria will earn a place at the AFCON finals scheduled for Cameroon if they win on Friday, and also get the better of the Leone Stars in Tuesday’s return at the Siaka Stevens Stadium in Freetown.
The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) confirmed on Thursday that the Super Eagles delegation to the return match in Freetown will travel aboard a chartered flight to the Sierra Leonean capital on Monday, and fly back to Abuja immediately after the game.  They have become used to this trend of things under Franco-German trainer, Gernot Rohr in his four years and four months so far: earning tickets to major tournaments with matches to spare. And that is what the Super Eagles aim to continue in this international fixtures-corridor when they confront the… November 11, 2020 In "Sports" Ahmed Musa, William Troost-Ekong, Alex Iwobi are among the 16 Super Eagles players that were spotted in Benin, Edo state for the 2022 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier match against Sierra Leone. Gernot Rohr, Super Eagles coach, is expecting 24 players in camp for the double-header clash against the… November 10, 2020 In "Sports" ...Rohr, Musa insist six points possible Super Eagles of Nigeria are targeting maximum six points over two-leg against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone so as to secure 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualification with games to spare. Nigeria are currently leading their group with six points from two games… November 12, 2020 In "Sports"