*Biden now has 236 electoral votes to Trump’s 213 Democrat Joe Biden has won Arizona and its 11 electoral votes, flipping a critical battleground state that Donald Trump won four years ago and that could help determine which candidate wins the presidency.
The victory by Biden was a huge blow to Trump’s chances for reelection. Arizona has backed a Democratic presidential candidate only once in the last 72 years, reports The Associated Press.
Biden’s campaign had focused on Arizona as part of its expanded battleground map through the Sun Belt, citing demographic changes, new residents and realignment away from Republicans among key suburban voters.
Arizona is among the more than half a dozen states that will help determine which candidate gets the 270 electoral votes to capture the White House.
Biden’s massive advantage in campaign cash allowed him to put Trump on defense across the country and work to build an unstoppable lead in the Electoral College.
In the race to 270 electoral votes, Biden has 236, while Trump has 213.  Its D-Day in the United States as voters cast their ballots to decide whether Donald Trump remains in the White House for another four years or his challenger, former Vice- President Joe Biden, will take over from him. WALE ELEGBEDE reports     After months of bitter campaigns and intriguing… November 3, 2020 In "Politics" Less than a week before Election Day, Joe Biden is tantalizingly close to a prize that has eluded generations of Democratic presidential candidates: Texas. Public opinion polls show Biden and Republican President Donald Trump effectively tied in the Lone Star State. They also suggest the former vice president is… October 29, 2020 In "News" The 2020 US elections are billed for Tuesday, November 3, 2020. As many as 13 state and territorial governorships, as well as numerous other state and county elections, all 435 seats in the House of Representatives and 35 of the 100 seats in the Senate will be contested.   But… November 1, 2020 In "Opinion"