…wants additional financial resources committed to immunisation Despite being declared free of Wild Polio Virus (WPV) about three months ago, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), has warned that Nigeria remained at risk of polio and measles outbreaks due to poor routine immunisation coverage. In a joint statement released to newsmen yesterday in Abuja, the international bodies noted that the COVID- 19 pandemic has widened vaccination gaps through disruptions of immunisation services globally, thus leaving millions of vulnerable children at risk of preventable childhood diseases. Both organisations urged the Nigerian government to urgently commit additional  financial resources to ensure safe resumption of vaccination campaigns and prioritise immunisation systems, in order to avert major measles and polio epidemics in the country. While noting that an estimated US$655million (US$400 million for polio and US$255 million for measles) were needed to address dangerous immunity gaps in non- GAVI eligible countries and target age groups, WHO and UNICEF said poliovirus transmission was expected to increase in Pakistan, Afghanistan and many under-immunized areas of Africa. According to them, failure to eradicate polio now would lead to global resurgence of the disease, resulting in as many as 200,000 new cases annually, within 10 years.” Director-General of WHO, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said the COVID-19 pandemic has had a devastating effect on health services and in particular immunization services, worldwide. “But unlike with COVID, we have the tools and knowledge to stop diseases such as polio and measles. What we need are the resources and commitments to put these tools and knowledge into action. If we do that, children’s lives will be saved. UNICEF’s Executive Director, Henrietta Fore, urged all countries and relevant authorities and organisations “not to allow the fight against one deadly disease to cause us to lose ground in the fight against other diseases. “Addressing the global COVID-19 pandemic is critical. However, other deadly diseases also threaten the lives of millions of children in some of the poorest areas of the world. That is why today, we are urgently calling for global action from country leaders, donors and partners. “We need additional financial resources to safely resume vaccination campaigns and prioritize immunization systems that are critical to protect children and avert other epidemics besides COVID- 19.” The statement further noted: “Nigeria remains at risk of both polio and measles outbreaks due to the inadequate improvements in increasing the routine immunization coverage in children receiving lifesaving vaccines. Nigeria was declared free of the wild poliovirus in August 2020. “Measles also continues to be among leading cause of death and disability among children, with first dose of measles vaccination coverage of only 54 per cent (NDHS 2018) in Nigeria. Nigeria is conducting supplemental immunizations to prevent outbreaks.”   ...wants additional financial resources committed to immunisation progs Despite being declared free of Wild Polio Virus (WPV) about three months ago, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), have warned that Nigeria remains at risk of polio and measles outbreaks due to poor routine immunisation coverage.… November 11, 2020 In "Health" Nigeria and the African continent have been officially declared free of wild poliovirus. The Independent Africa Regional Certification Commission (ARCC) for Polio Eradication made the declaration yesterday. Polio usually affects children under five, sometimes leading to irreversible paralysis. Death can occur when breathing muscles are affected. Twenty-five years ago thousands… August 26, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed optimism that African countries could defeat the Coronavirus pandemic in the same manner it eradicated the Wild Polio Virus on the continent.   The president spoke at the formal certification of the Wild Polio Virus eradication in the African region during the virtual session of… August 26, 2020 In "News"