Austin Bodo, the publisher of Creek News Weekly newspaper, currently bedridden due to difficulty in walking, has received some financial help from Chinedu Ugwa a friend of the media and South-South Youth Leader of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Bodo has been bedridden for close to a year and seeking for financial help from government and well-meaning individuals and corporate bodies to enable him access effective medical care but he had not been lucky enough. Presenting a cash gift of N.1m to Austin Bodo, Ugwa, who is also the Director General of unified Non-indigene Association of Bayelsa, opened the floodgate of financial support as a show of love from Nigerians to the sick journalist. Presenting the money on Wednesday, the Igbo Youth Leader, who was in company of the state Chairman of the NUJ, Samuel Numonengi and other members of the union, said the gesture was borne out of his passion to touch lives. He said: “A hero is not measured by how much he has in his bank account but how many lives he is able to touch in his life time. “I did not do this because I have so much but I was touched when I read on Austin Bodo’s Facebook page that he had been bedridden for several months without any help to get him better medical treatment to enable him get back on his feet again. “I am using this medium to call on the Bayelsa State government and the general public to come to the aid of this great man in the media industry who has put in so much for society. This is the time for the society to also give back to him.” The state NUJ Chairman, Numonengi thanked Ugwa for identifying with the media family, calling on others to follow suit and come to the aid of the ailing journalist whom he described as hard-working, dedicated and loving.  Several hundreds of people of Bayelsa State, including students, market women and the group of Non-Indigenes in Bayelsa State yesterday trooped into streets to protest the ruling of the Bayelsa Governorship Election Petition Tribunal, which nullified the November 16, 2019governorship election of the state, which produced Governor Douye Diri. A… August 20, 2020 In "News" “There is no way Igbos would all speak with one voice. But let one be more slightly strident than the others. That’s what I look for” – Emeka Ojukwu. Anambra born business mogul, Chief Arthur Eze, is easily one of the foremost philanthropists in this country. He has not lacked… July 23, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Our Reporter Northern elders under the aegis of Coalition of Northern Elders for Peace and Development (CNEEPD), have commended the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, for distancing the zone from a recent inciting statement by the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu. This… October 28, 2020 In "News"