Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has called on the leadership of two main political parties in Ghana, New Patriotic Party (NPP) and National Democratic Congress (NDC) to desist from actions that are capable of destroying the country ahead of the December 7 elections.  The former President, in a letter addressed to the parties, sought for building efforts aimed at enhancing mutual trust and confidence among themselves in the relevant national institutions and in the electoral process.  Obasanjo, through his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi yesterday also urged the Presidential candidates to embrace the spirit of sportsmanship and ensure a peaceful and credible election. The letter reads in part: “As leaders of the two main political parties, this is the legacy you have entrusted to preserve heading into elections.  “Your role is unique in that, the NPP and the NDC are the main players, have made significant contributions to the peace and stability of Ghana and are vested with the capacity, influence and control to constructively shape national discussions and processes such as the upcoming elections.  “In this vein, the success or failure of the elections, a key aspect of democratic consolidation in Ghana will largely depend on the posture of the NPP and the NDC leadership and how that is manifested by the actions of their supporters. “The NPP and NDC are opponents and not enemies in this process . They are both indispensable beyond the elections to preserve peace and stability of Ghana. “That is why amid the tensions and disagreements, they must desist from language that incites violence and hate while reinforcing the messages of peace and togetherness.  “Therefore, I implore you to approach these elections with very competitive spirit but also with respect for one another, respect for Democrat, values, love for country and a sense of responsibility to preserve the gains Ghana has made since the advent of democracy.  . “Let me also take this opportunity to make a special appeal to the Presidential candidates of the two main parties who are both my brothers to demonstrate the statesmanship that they are known for throughout the election process.”  Former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, has canvassed early and staggered primary elections as panacea for highly contentious nomination process in Nigeria's electoral system. Ekweremadu stated this yesterday during a webinar on “Electoral Reforms: National Assembly and the People’s Expectations”, which was organised by the Centre for Liberty… June 25, 2020 In "News" Ghana’s former President, Jerry Rawlings, died yesterday morning from complications of COVID-19. The ex-president died at Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital in Accra, capital of Ghana, at the age of 73. Rawlings, a charismatic figure, led two coups, first in 1979, before twice being elected president in a multiparty polls. “A great… November 13, 2020 In "News" 2023: Is Tambuwal testing  the pulse with visits?   FELIX NWANERI reports on the recent visits by the governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, to some eminent Nigerians, which is viewed as part of his strategies to test the political waters before launching his 2023 presidential bid   The build-up… August 31, 2020 In "Politics"