 A crack team of detectives assembled by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday, interrogated the immediate past Executive Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Mr. Babatunde Fowler, over alleged abuse of office.  Specifically, Fowler was grilled in connection with “performance bonus fraud” during his tenure as Permanent Secretary/Chairman, Lagos State Board of  Internal Revenue Service, between 2005 and 2013.  A highly-placed source at EFCC, who spoke in confidence with New Telegraph, said Fowler appeared at the commission’s zonal office in Lagos, following an earlier invitation extended to him. He was still being questioned as at the time of this report.  Fowler, who was appointed chairman of FIRS in 2015 by President Muhammadu Buhari, did not get a chance to serve another term, after his tenure lapsed in December 2019. Speaking in confidence with this newspaper, the source said: “He (Fowler) was actually invited, and then responded today (yesterday) at the Lagos Zonal office of the commission.  “He is still there, as we speak, undergoing interrogation by a crack team of detectives. “The issue is related to his tenure as chairman of the Lagos Internal Revenue Service (LIRS).  “The commission is looking at something relating to performance bonus.” Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, confirmed that Fowler “responded” to an invitation.  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has reportedly arrested a former Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Babatunde Fowler, over an alleged N5 billion fraud perpetrated under his watch. Fowler, a long-time ally of the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed… November 2, 2020 In "News" Suspended chair may face prosecution There were indications, yesterday, that the presidency has directed the Director of Operations of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Mohammed Umar, to assume duties as the Acting chairman of the anti-graft agency. This comes on the heels of the arrest and suspension… July 9, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the Federal Government to arraign the suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, over allegations of fraud. PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbindiyan, said the delay in bringing Magu’s case to… July 17, 2020 In "News"