 By Lawrence Olaoye President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed grief over the killing of farmers on rice fields at Zabarmari, in Jere Local Government of Borno State, describing the terrorist killings as “insane”.
Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in a post on his Facebook page late Saturday quoted the President as saying: “I condemn the killing of our hardworking farmers by terrorists in Borno State. The entire country is hurt by these senseless killings. My thoughts are with their families in this time of grief. May their souls Rest In Peace.”
Buhari said the government had given all the needed support to the armed forces “to take all necessary steps to protect the country’s population and its territory.”
According to reports, the insurgents had captured 60 of the farmers and killed 43 of them.
The assailants had reportedly tied up the agricultural workers and slit their throats.
“We have recovered 43 dead bodies, all of them slaughtered, along with six others with serious injuries,” militia leader, Babakura Kolo, told AFP.
“It is no doubt the handiwork of Boko Haram who operate in the area and frequently attack farmers,” Kolo added.
The victims were labourers from Sokoto State in northwest Nigeria, roughly 1,000 kilometres (600 miles) away, who had travelled to the northeast to find work, said another militiaman Ibrahim Liman who gave the same toll.  Before reacting to that question-headline, please, take a little while to walk in the 'shoes' of Borno governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum. A few persons have been writing to condemn what they perceive as Zulum's political incorrectness. They refer to the governor’s expression of concern over ceaseless killings of the… August 14, 2020 In "Opinion" The United States and the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Saad III, yesterday decried the level of killings in the northern part of the country. They called on the Federal Government and the various state governments in the area to wake up to their responsibilities. The U.S. condemned killings of… June 18, 2020 In "Opinion" ...says military solution alone can't address insurgency in N'East Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, yesterday condemned police brutality and the October 20 killing of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Tollgate in Lagos. The governor, who briefed State House Correspondents, after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, at the Presidential Villa,… November 7, 2020 In "News"