•Bayelsa holds Abia; as MFM, Goddosky ends in draw  Two first half goals and a third in the second half were all Akwa United needed to dispatch Cynosure FC in the ongoing 2nd Edition of the Governor Wike Pre-Season Football Tournament.  Despite starting brilliantly, Cynosure FC shot itself in the foot when a poor clearance from goalkeeper Believe Imiete was punished by Ukeme Williams with a powerful shot in the 17th minute.  Before the team could regroup, they were soon behind barely five minutes later when Ndifreke Effiong scored from a well weighted pass. Cynosure FC started the second half with greater determination and was rewarded when Anyanwu Daberechi scored a brilliant header off a corner kick.  However, Ubong Friday scored a glorious goal to kill off any fighting spirit from Cynosure, who will now hope for a better outing in their next match. Speaking after the game, Akwa United’s coach, Kennedy Boboye, described the game as a good one against a team that is physical.  In the second match of the day, Abia Warriors and Bayelsa United played out a gruelling 1-1 draw.  Anthony Okemirri scored from the spot in the first hall before Bayelsa United equalised with a brilliant goal in the second half. The final game of the day also ended in a draw with Goddosky FC forcing MFM FC of Lagos to a 2-2 draw.  The second edition of Governor Wike Pre-Season Football Tournament kicks off tomorrow, Friday with continental campaigners, Rivers United and Lobi Stars slugging it out in the opening match. The draws for the pre-season tourney, which held at the conference room of the Rivers State Ministry of Sports, had in attendance… November 6, 2020 In "Sports" Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Sports, Honour Sirawoo, has assured that the COVID-19 guidelines will be strictly followed during the second edition of the Governor Wike Pre-Season Tourney. He said this during a telephone conversation with SportsVille at the weekend. According to him the safety COVID-19 protocols will be… October 27, 2020 In "Sports" Rivers Sports Commissioner, Boma Iyaye, says Port Harcourt and indeed, Rivers State is very safe for all sports lovers and Nigerians from all walks of life. He stated this shortly after meeting with the organizing committee for the second edition of Governor Wike Pre-season Soccer Tournament starting in Port Harcourt… November 5, 2020 In "Sports"