Ex-international, Christian Obodo, who was kidnapped on Sunday, has regained his freedom as the former Udinese midfielder considers relocating abroad. It was the second time the retired Super Eagles player would be kidnapped after he was first abducted on June 9, 2012, on his way to church.  According to the police, Obodo was kidnapped at about 5pm on Sunday around Ishaka Hotel just along Refinery Road when he stopped by the road to buy banana alongside his girlfriend.  Speaking about his experience on a radio programme in Lagos monitored by our correspondent, the 36-year-old said he can’t really understand why people would want to make him go through the trauma of kidnapping again.  “It was really discomforting; being locked up for four hours in the car boot and in the heat,” he said. “The kidnappers were even telling me about how they lost money for placing bets on Nigeria to score in the second half.  “They didn’t hurt me butbitvwas another bad experience ” He added that he could move out of Nigeria because of the trauma he has had to pass through during the two kidnapping ordeals  Statistically, Nigeria records more than 1,000 kidnapping incidents in a year and there are many that are unreported. AJIBADE OLUSESAN writes that due to their immense fame and fortune, football stars have become preys in the hands of these criminals who have visited them and their families with untold agonizing… April 4, 2020 In "Sports" ...We are on their trail, Police   The Chairman, Iganna Local Council Development Area of Oyo State, Comrade Jacob Olayiwola Adeleke, has been kidnapped. According to New Telegraph's investigation, Adeleke was kidnapped alongside his driver on Sunday evening along Okeho-Ado Awaye Road while on his way to Ibadan for a scheduled meeting with Governor… October 26, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...gang killed NDLEA officer, abducted policeman -CP   Police have arrested a traditional ruler in Awara, Ohaji/Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State, Eze Andrew Okwuegbunwa, for alleged involvement in kidnapping. The police also arrested a cleric, Pastor Caleb Agu, who is the alleged head of the syndicate.   Agu… August 4, 2020 In "News"