Suspected Boko Haram fighters have killed at least forty farmers in Borno State, Channels Television is reporting. An unspecified number were also taken away by the criminals.  The farmers were waylaid on their way to their rice farms which they were harvesting before the surprise attack happened.  The attack occurred around Marrabati and Hammayya villages, near Zabarmari in Jere local government of Borno state on Saturday morning. Civilian Joint Task Force sources say sixty of the farmers were gathered before the assailants shot at close range or beheaded their victims.  It is not clear how many of the farmers were taken away, or how many were spared but a total of 60 persons were assembled before the bloodletting.  Sources say the location, which is a distance from the last Jere town with inhabitants, is a known stronghold of the insurgents. Local government elections were conducted in the state today, with voter apathy witnessed in some parts of the state.  It is not clear if the ill-fated farmers cast their vote before proceeding to meet their deaths.   Suspected Boko Haram fighters have killed at least forty farmers in Borno State, Channels Television is reporting. An unspecified number were also taken away by the criminals. The farmers were waylaid on their way to their rice farms which they were harvesting before the surprise attack happened. The attack… November 28, 2020 In "Top Stories" Gunmen killed at least five villagers in a raid in Borno State on Wednesday before being repelled by government troops, military sources said, an attack that bore the hallmarks of Islamist Boko Haram militants. Boko Haram has killed thousands of people and displaced 1.5 million in a six-year-old insurgency… August 22, 2020 In "News" Hon. Ibrahim Hassan, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Borno State, believes that Governor Babagana Zulum needs the protection of the Federal Government for him to succeed in his bid to ensure that peace is restored to Borno State. In this interview, he speaks on the recent… August 20, 2020 In "Politics"