Coaches of some of the clubs participating at the ongoing Governor Wike Pre-Season Tournament in Port Harcourt have heaped praises on the organisers of the championships, as they described it as a good way to prepare their teams for the coming league campaign.  MFM of Lagos coach, Tony Bolus, said the tournament afforded him the opportunity to access his team after losing some key players during the transfer window.  According to him, his team is still work in progress and with four points from two matches, he has been able to identify some loopholes in the team which the technical crew would work on. “It’s just work in progress for us,” the coach said. “We have been working on the boys immediately after the lockdown and needed to come to a reputable place like this to test ourselves.  “The boys were decent against Bayelsa United, it’s a gradual process. Before the end of the pre season they should be where we expect them to be.”  For Lobi Stars coach, Kabiru Dogo, the championships afforded him to test several players amidst different formations against some solid teams like Akwa United and the rest. Lobi Stars forced the former AITEO Cup winner to a 1-1 draw on Sunday after defeating host, Rivers United 1-0 on the opening day of the preseason.  The former Sunshine Stars of Akure coach added: “I believe my wards are improving in every game and as you can see I introduced a new team today just to test the quality that we have.”   Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Sports, Honour Sirawoo, has assured that the COVID-19 guidelines will be strictly followed during the second edition of the Governor Wike Pre-Season Tourney. He said this during a telephone conversation with SportsVille at the weekend. According to him the safety COVID-19 protocols will be… October 27, 2020 In "Sports" Former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ndubuisi Egbo, became the first Nigerian and African coach to win a league title in Europe after leading KF Tirana to the Albanian top division title. Speaking during an interview on a sports WhatsApp group, NSM Rebranded, and monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, the former Julius Berger… July 25, 2020 In "Sports" Rivers Sports Commissioner, Boma Iyaye, says Port Harcourt and indeed, Rivers State is very safe for all sports lovers and Nigerians from all walks of life. He stated this shortly after meeting with the organizing committee for the second edition of Governor Wike Pre-season Soccer Tournament starting in Port Harcourt… November 5, 2020 In "Sports"