Ondo State Commissioner for Information, Donald Ojogo, in this interview with ADEWALE MOMOH, speaks on Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s stand on the mode of primary to be adopted ahead of the July governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, among other issues   The governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is billed for July with some members of the party agitating for direct primary, while the body language of the governor seems that he is in support of indirect primary. What is the situation of things in that regard?   First and foremost, we’ve not come out as a government that we are opposed to direct primary; neither had the governor expressed aversion for same. We’re not afraid of any mode of primary. And I’ll want the public to know too that the noise being orchestrated by those in the Unity Forum for direct primary is to put out a narrative that Mr. Governor is opposed to direct primary. In fact, we’ll even prefer a direct primary. So, those who are making noise about direct primary are only wasting their time.  The truth of the matter is there are no two situations that are the same. Somebody made allusion to Lagos State. Everybody stepped down for a particular aspirant then and it was a two traffic contest between the incumbent governor and the then governor. For those who clamour for direct primary, the message to them is that Governor Akeredolu is more prepared for any mode of primary than those who clamour for direct.   Are you saying that the governor is not scared of direct primary?   Scared? Does it not sound preposterous that in a camp of very deceitful governorship aspirants or governorship hopefuls of about six or seven who cannot put their heads together that the only slogan bringing them together is direct primary. It’s laughable and that is unfortunate. You can’t put something on nothing. What is the basis for their clamour for direct primary? They are very irreconcilable, well contradictory, with very lethal interests against one another. These are people who cannot come together. Amongst them are those who say they want to run for governorship but are not ready to abandon their choice appointments at the federal level. They are scared of resigning.   Today, we want to challenge them that for anyone who wants to be governor, he must be prepared to take the bull by the horn, resign, come and campaign. Amongst them, we have seen audio aspirants who we just listen to on the social media. Amongst them, we have seen aspirants who have made it a project or a venture every four years; governorship has been their projects. At the end of every four years, what they do is to acquire property in Abuja. Why must you be scared of a group of people with contradictory interests?   What they have seen in the governorship aspiration is merchandize. Are we talking about those who are shouting direct primary, who have turned themselves to be veterans of a so-called disintegrated group or someone who refused to declare his intentions but desire to be governor as a result of some problems he has deliberately created within the Unity Forum? So, it is not possible, their reasons for coming together are not altruistic, they are personal, very deceitful and very mischievous. Their interests do not gel and not in the overall interest of the state.   In the camp of Governor Akeredolu, our case is different. We are not on the same pedestal with these persons with usually contradictory and mischief laced interests. We are not bothered, but one thing is very important, we are not going to take any issue with levity, no opponent is worth being overlooked. We’ll not underrate any even as we won’t be bothered by every of their antics. Surprisingly, none of them has come out to repudiate the performance of the governor. That itself is a great relief. It is agreed that Governor Akeredolu has performed; so what else is required.   Is the governor considering Option B if he fails to get the APC ticket?   We should not be talking about Plan B. We don’t have anything like Plan B. All we know is that we are going into the primary of the APC to win and going to the election of October 10 to defeat whoever will be presented by any party.  Series of crises have been rocking the Unity Forum, particularly when its consensus candidate was announced. Is it true that Governor Akeredolu is behind the crises?    One credit we should give to Mr. Governor is the fact that he is the only governor I have seen that has refused to be the typical nocturnal politician. That is to underscore the fact that he does not have time for all these insinuations people are talking about. Mr. Governor is not interested in the crises in the Unity Forum. He tried as much as possible that rather than creating problems there, he commenced the process of bringing everybody together.   You remember the Advisory Council that was set up, Mr. Governor bankrolled it so that there will be peace in the party in the state. I’ll not be competent enough to discuss details of the Advisory Council’s resolutions but I can tell you that Mr. Governor alongside the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was instrumental to the setting up of the council.   You will also recall that these same elements in the Unity Forum rejected the idea of the Advisory Council. These elements in the Unity Forum could not have been united according to their desires because of certain unsavoury actions they took. Recall the insults they hauled on the person of former Interim National Chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande. They were very disrespectful which is very unusual in the culture of people of the South-West.   Chief Akande by every standard is a well-respected person in the politics of this nation. But when some persons who came together just for the purpose of mischief could go to the extent of hauling stones of insults at him, there is no how that group can be united. So, rather than blame Akeredolu for their problems, they should go and beg Chief Akande for forgiveness. They are under a spell for their insolence.   Why the crises at this time knowing that the election is around the corner? There is no political situation or political era that can be devoid of crises. If you are looking at a crises-free situation, then you have no business in politics. Your ability to navigate around crises to victory is what is most desirable. Your ability to bring crises entrepreneurs in every situation together to come out victorious is what we find to be most applaudable. So, crises cannot be isolated from political situations. We don’t see it as a very unusual thing. The issue is simple; come out stronger from whatever crisis you find yourself.   Recently, N4.3 billion belonging to the Ondo State government was found in a secret account. What is the true position as regards the account as well as the allegations that the governor’s son was paid N430 million consultancy fee from the money?    It was alleged that the governor’s son collected N430 million as consultancy fee from the N4.3 billion. Where is the evidence that he collected the money? The truth of the matter is that I know with the viciousness of the opponents of Governor Akeredolu either within the APC or outside is so fierce to the extent that if they had gotten a piece of single evidence that the governor’s was collecting one naira from Ondo State, they would have been flying it. Let them come out with the evidence that the governor’s son collected N430 million. And, I want to tell you that the N4.3 billion couldn’t have been paid into expenditure account but into revenue account. How was the money discovered?   Let me give you the background of the N4.3 billion crisis. Who discovered the money? The money was lodged since 2008 or 2009 even before the advent of the immediate past government. Zenith Bank hid it from the immediate past government. But immediately this government came on board, somebody in government was informed that the money has been laying in the bank. The people went ahead through due process to find out what was actually wrong and they discovered that the sum of N4.3 billion was in Zenith Bank for over 10 years without even the knowledge immediate past government.  First, what the government decided to do, I mean officials of government, what they decided to do was that they had a running battle with Zenith Bank as they insisted that the interest on the money must be calculated for keeping the money that long without the knowledge of government. But with no intention to defend the bank, if your money is in the bank and you didn’t write that the money should be traded with, the bank couldn’t have done business with your money on your behalf to generate interests for you.   It was just docile, laying fallow in an account. So, if the money was there and not interests had accrued, what was the basis of keeping the money there belong the period of discovery? So moving the money to itger banks was punitive enough for the bank un question. So, all those papers you see flying about the money, was it paid into private account? It was the same government’s accounts. It was put into government’s properly managed accounts.   Did the state House of Assembly do what was out of place?   What the House of Assembly did was not out of place. But it was not the House of Assembly that discovered it. When the money was discovered, what the Ministry of Finance did was to transfer the money to the Ministry of Budget and Planning to be incorporated in the 2019 budget. But by the time the money was discovered in 2018, the 2018 budget had already been prepared and passed by the House of Assembly but it still reflected the financial statement of the Accountant-General. By 2019, the money reflected in the 2019 budget under inherited fund and it was duly appropriated for by the House of Assembly.  The House of Assembly discharged its constitutional responsibilities but the source of inspiration for some, just a few, about five or six of members of the House of Assembly that it was not appropriated for, that source  goofed. He wrote a badly scripted piece for five or six of Assembly members to act. And that was the reason they goofed. I can tell that majority of members of the House of Assembly were not happy about that false alarm that was raised. And I’m also happy to say that I do not need to make further explanations other than adopting the statement that was made by the Speaker that some fifth columnists wanted to take advantage of that little gap in communication.  