 Jurgen Klopp walked out of a Sky Sports interview in tears after Liverpool’s title triumph.
The Kop chief helped the Reds end their 30-year wait for a Premier League title and paid tribute to his stunning side, reports mirror.co.uk.
But it all got too much for an emotional Klopp during a live TV interview as he cut the talk short after being overwhelmed.
He said: “It is unbelievable. It’s much more than I ever thought would be possible. For our fans: It’s for you. It is incredible. It is a joy to do it for you.
“We had to convince people and that is what we did together.
“It is a huge moment. I am completely overwhelmed. I had no idea it would feel like this…talking through the tears!”
Klopp and his players came together to watch the City game at a Liverpool hotel, and he watched as Chelsea won to hand them the title.
It has been 30 years of pain for the Reds, and an incredible 1151 league matches since they were last champions of England. Now Klopp believes it is an historic moment.
“It’s an incredible achievement by my players and it’s a huge joy for me to coach them,” he said.
“I haven’t waited 30 years, I have been here for four and a half years, but it is quite an incredible achievement, especially with the three month break because nobody knew if we could go on.”
And the German coach said he is proud his players have now written their own glorious chapter in Anfield history.
He added: “It is a mix of the history you created we are compared with. We had to write our own story.
“The atmosphere around the club, everyone lives football. We have a wonderful mix of players, all winners. It is so incredibly difficult in this competition but consistency drives us.”
As the players celebrated, defensive icon Virgil van Dijk offered an emotional tribute to his team-mates, when he said: “We all know we want to do it for each other. And the bond we have is incredible.
“Unbelievable. What as season so far, we’ve been incredible – incredible to be part of this group of players. This year we have taken it – especially the league – to a different level.
“People can have their opinions but we have been so consistent, done it so well and it is a fantastic feeling, and I am very proud I’m a Premier League winner as well.”
And skipper Jordan Henderson also paid tribute to Klopp, who has guided Liverpool to a record-breaking season.
“Now we have finally done it – it’s just an amazing feeling, this bunch of lads it is incredible to be part of it,” he said.
“The manager has been amazing. This wouldn’t be possible without him – what he has done from day one inside and outside the club, it is incredible and it is a joy to be part of it.
“He will make sure we will stay hungry and want more – and we will show that.” 