Rep, group place N.15m bounty on APGA scribe   A 15-year-old victim of rape, identified simply as Ene, yesterday told journalists how she was defiled allegedly by the Secretary of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Eddy Ujah, in Benue State.   Ene, who spoke with journalists on the phone form her hospital bed, said she asked the assailant to repent so that he could get God’s forgiveness.  Ene said she was returning from where she had gone to grind garri about 10a.m., that fateful day when Ujah grabbed her from the road.  She said: “Because the road is connected and is near his house so he was coming outside, he saw me and grabbed me and kicked me into his room. He locked the door and started beating me. After that he went to the back door and locked it and switched on his phone music and connected it to the loud speaker and made it so loud and when I was shouting nobody could hear me.  “After beating me, he dragged me to his bedroom and raped me. So, I now told him that if he did not repent, that God is going to judge him and God will show him because of what he is doing to others. “Before I came out, he called his friend who is outside and to him to check if there is anyone around. So his friend checked and told him that there was nobody outside. He then opened the door for me and told me to go home. He warned me that if I tell anybody, he was going to kill me.”   Meanwhile, a member of the House of Representatives representing Benue State Otukpo/Ohimini Federal Constituency, Blessing Onuh,  and a group, One Idoma Initiative, have placed a bounty of N150,000 on the run away Ujah, for allegedly defiling the 15-year-old girl.   A social activist, Julie Okoh, told New Telegraph yesterday that the APGA secretary in Otukpo Local Government Area had raped the girl identified simply as Ene and had since been on the run.   He said: “The House of Representatives member, Blessing Onuh, has kicked against the incident and has placed a bounty of N50,000 on whoever finds the man.   “Also, a group, One Idoma Initiative, has placed a N100,000 bounty on him. The Police Commissioner, Inspector General of Police and National Police Officers’ Wives Association are all working to ensure that the man is arrested.”   Okoh said that Ene was on admission at the General Hospital, Otukpo, where she was recuperating.  