Troops of the joint military spike operation codenamed Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), on Sunday, nabbed one local militia leader popularly known as Alhaji Audu from Olegeje community in Agatu Local Government Area of Benue State and recovered one AK47 rifle and 60 rounds of ammunition from him during a communal clash in Agatu.
Some militia groups had on the same day attacked three communities of Adana, Olegeje and Olegogboche all in the Agatu Local Government Area.
It was learnt that Audu led other members of his group to attack the Adana community which led to the death of two persons while others were injured.
Although another source attributed the attack to Fulani herdsmen where 10 people were allegedly killed and some others missing.
However, another resident, Job Emakwo, it was a communal clash involving the three communities as a result of the activities of some militias in the affected areas.
Emakwo told journalists that Audu and his group went to Adana in search of one of their gang members and started shooting sporadically in all directions, killing two persons on the spot and injuring others in the process.
He added that there was a misunderstanding between the three communities in the area over land which earlier claimed the lives of some persons.
The resident said that immediately troops of the OPWS stationed in Agatu heard about the clash, they quickly rushed to the affected communities and in the process stormed a militia camp and apprehended Audu who was later identified as one of the leaders of the local militias who instigated the fight between the three communities.
He said the troops recovered one AK47 rifle and 60 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition with two magazines from Audu.
The Force Commander of OPWS, Maj. Gen. Adeyemi Yekini, said he could not comment on the Agatu attack.
He also directed our correspondent to contact the Defense Headquarters (DHQ) Information Department.
On her part the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Catherine Anene, confirmed that there was an attack in Agatu.
Anene added that three bodies had been recovered so far.
She said: “Information was received on14/06/2020 about 0530hrs that some gunmen attacked Adana village, a riverine area in Agatu that is not motorable. Police officers have been deployed to the area. Three bodies have been recovered.” 