…Umahi shut down offices, orders decontamination   Uchenna Inya, Abakaliki   Some government officials in Ebonyi in Ebonyi State have tested positive of coronavirus pandemic. This is even as the number of cases in the state has risen to 75 with 49 still active while 26 have been treated and discharged. A total of 3,000 samples of the virus were collected and tested out of which 75 tested positive including the government officials. The officials are said to be undergoing medical attention at the state treatment centre. Following this, Governor… Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa   In commemoration of the 2020 World Environment Day in the wake of the global coronavirus pandemic, the Bayelsa State government says it has concluded plans to host a virtual World Environment Day Global summit on Friday at 11 am. In a statement signed by Justice Joffa, Director of Strategic Communications to the Bayelsa State Governor and issued to New Telegraph on Thursday in Yenagoa, government said that the theme is the impact of coronavirus pandemic on the aquatic flora and fauna of the Niger Delta. The… Lagos State Safety Commission has opened registration of religious and social centres in the state in preparation for full reopening. This is in furtherance of the Register-to-Open initiative of the state government, as directed by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the commission said in a release signed by Lanre Mojola, its Director-General. “Further to the directive of Mr Governor with respect to the Register-to-Open initiative of Lagos State government, we hereby confirm that all religious and social centers (social clubs, event centres, restaurants, bars, night clubs, spas, cinemas and gyms) within… A “new baby” was born with the revival of Uganda Airlines, the country’s president announced last year. But now its four new jets sit idle, business suspended indefinitely because of coronavirus-related travel restrictions. Questions are swirling in Africa and elsewhere over the financial wisdom of sustaining prestige carriers that often have a tiny share of an aviation market that sees no recovery in sight, reports The Associated Press. African airlines had been piling on debt long before the pandemic but government bailouts allowed them to limp on for years. Now, as sub-Saharan… The New York City police department says a police officer has been shot in Brooklyn. The shooting happened late Wednesday, nearly four hours after an 8 p.m. curfew went into effect intended to quell unrest over the death of George Floyd in Minnesota, reports The Associated Press. Details on the shooting, including the officer’s condition, weren’t immediately available. Video posted on social media showed streets filled with police cars at the scene of the incident. New York City has been roiled by days of protests over police brutality, but… Nickelodeon went off air earlier this week to play an eight-minute, 46-second video in protest of George Floyd’s police-involved death. The kids’ channel announced it was going off the air Monday “in support of justice, equality and human rights.” The entirety of the video is accompanied by the sound of a person breathing and includes a message to join the Colour of Change organization “to call on public officials across the country to take real action.” The video was posted on YouTube by MTV, which, like Nickelodeon, is part of Viacom,… British officials have discussed supplies of 5G networking equipment with companies in South Korea and Japan as part of a bid to develop alternatives to China’s Huawei Technologies Co Ltd, a person with knowledge of the matter told Reuters. The source said the talks with Japan’s NEC Corp and South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, which were first reported by Bloomberg, are part of a government plan announced last year to diversify Britain’s range of 5G suppliers. A government spokeswoman was not immediately available for comment after normal working… Kunle Olayeni, Abeokuta Police in Ogun State have arrested one Wasiu Bankole, 25, for allegedly raping a 70-year-old woman. Detectives from Agbado division in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state apprehended the suspect on Wednesday, about 24 hours after he reportedly committed the crime. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident Thursday, said the suspect had confessed to the crime. Oyeyemi disclosed that the septuagenarian rape victim (name withheld) reported at the Agbado division that while she was sleeping in her house on… Coronavirus protests spread to Senegal’s capital, Dakar Protestors in Dakar set tyres on fire and threw stones at security forces on Wednesday night during protests over a nationwide dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed almost three months ago because of the coronavirus pandemic. The unrest in Senegal’s capital followed similar action in the holy city of Touba a night earlier, where crowds of people torched an ambulance, threw rocks and looted office buildings, reports Reuters. “Coronavirus is an infectious disease but (President) Macky Sall must know that here in Senegal, most people are… George Floyd, whose in-custody death in Minneapolis last week triggered an avalanche of protests over the mistreatment of black people by police, tested positive for coronavirus weeks before his death, an autopsy report released Wednesday shows. The 20-page document released by the Hennepin County Medical Examiner’s Office says that an April 3 test on Floyd was positive for the virus’ genetic code, or RNA, reports NBC News. Because that RNA can remain in someone’s body for weeks after the disease is gone, the autopsy says, a second positive test after his death…