Bandits have unleashed terror on villages in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State.
In the Sunday attacks, the bandits kidnapped at least 10 people, stole farm produce and set several houses ablaze.
This came barely 48 hours after the bandits attacked some communities in the state.
According to reports, communities affected in the latest attacks include Kokki, Jabuki, Guto, Gwaja, Sundna and Kokki-Magami, all in Gurmana Ward in Shiroro Local Government Area.
It was learnt that the attacks, which took a more alarming dimension this time around, were carried out simultaneously on the villages as the bandits set many houses ablaze thereby rendering many people homeless.
A source told our correspondent yesterday that a lot of the houses in the Kokki community were set ablaze.
According to the source, about 10 people were kidnapped but no life was lost.
The source added that the bandits carted away unquantifiable valuables, including herds of cattle, food items, farm produce, motorcycles, among others, before setting people’s houses on fire.
Kokki and Kokki-Magami are receiving another brute of the attacks from the bandits as the communities were involved in the attacks carried out by the bandits last Friday.
The Co-convener, Concerned Shiroro Youths, Sani Abubakar Kokki, said the majority of the people in Kokki had lost their homes and most of their cattles to the bandits.
He said: “The reports at my disposal indicate that last night (on Sunday), simultaneous attacks took place in six villages in Gurmana Ward and took a more alarming dimension as the atrocities committed by the heartless criminals this time around include arson among others.
“They set many houses ablaze, kidnapped quite a number of people and carted away valuables.
“The heinous activities committed by the terrorists in Shiroro Local Government Area have become a regular occurrence and have left the affected locals homeless, hopeless, helpless and hapless.”
Kokki regretted that the people had been abandoned to their fate as the affected communities “do not have the presence of security despite the series of attacks”.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Abiodun Wasiu, said he would get back to the correspondent after he got details of the attacks.
However, as at the time of filing this report, he did not get back to our correspondent. 