Temitope Ogunbanke, Johnchuks Onuanyim, Chukwu David and Senator representing Lagos-East on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bayo Osinowo, fondly called Pepper, has died.
President Muhammadu Buhari, the the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, APC, among others, have described Osinowo’s death as a great loss to the country.
In his condolences to the family of the late Osinowo and the Senate, the President said the contributions of the deceased in the Upper Chamber would be fondly remembered.
Buhari, in a statement issued yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, recounted that Osinowo, a key member of the  APC, as chairman of Senate Committee on Industry and member of other committees, worked diligently to advance this administration’s objective of building a better and prosperous Nigeria.
The President affirmed that the senator’s commitment to meet the needs of his community as a four-time member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, devotion to national development as well as insightful contributions on the floor of the Senate would be fondly remembered and missed.
He prayed God Almighty to grant the family of Osinowo, friends and well-wishers the fortitude to bear the loss.
The Lagos State chapter of the APC  described Osinowo’s death as a great loss to Nigeria.
The party said in a statement issued by its spokesman, Seye Oladejo, that the late Osinowo, popularly called Pepper, was a strong pillar and a stabilising force as a long-serving member of the Lagos State House of Assembly.
He said: “We commiserate with our National Leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his immediate family and the entire Lagos State APC on this shocking loss.
“Senator Bayo Osinowo, it will be recalled, was at the forefront of the battle to entrench democratic governance. He was particularly a leading light, in the struggle for the revalidation of June 12.
“He was a strong pillar and a stabilising force as a long-serving member of the Lagos State House of Assembly.
“Pepper, as he was widely known, will be remembered for his wise counsel, matured leadership, loyalty to the party and commitment to democratic ideals.
“May Almighty Allah repose his soul, forgive his sins and grant his numerous admirers the fortitude to bear this great loss.”
Meanwhile, the national body of the party described the late lawmaker as a loyal party member.
Its National Publicity Secretary Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said in a statement that the party received with shock the passing of Osinowo.
He said: “We join other Nigerians, the entire National Assembly, the good people of Lagos East in particular and Lagos State in general to mourn the passage of a democrat, who contributed immensely to the development of Lagos State as a lawmaker in the House of Assembly and Nigeria as a senator.
“Though his tenure in the Senate was brief, our great party appreciates the loyalty of Senator Osinowo to the cause of the APC-led government.
“Fondly called ‘Pepperito’ by friends and associates, he was a four-term member of the Lagos House of Assembly, where he represented Kosofe constituency. In the 9th Senate, Osinowo chaired the Senate Committee on Commerce, Industry and Investment.
“We commiserate with his immediate family, political associates in Lagos State and beyond, and the Senate for this irreparable loss and pray that the Almighty God grants the deceased peaceful and eternal rest.”
Also, President of the Senate, Lawan, and his Deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege, yesterday expressed shock over Osinowo’s death.
Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ola Awoniyi, condoled with Osinowo’s family, friends, political associates and also the government and people of Lagos State over the loss.
The Senate President said Osinowo served his country creditably as a distinguished senator in the Ninth Senate which marked its first anniversary only last week.
Also, in his condolence message, the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, said that as a legislator, Osinowo was a passionate populist, who represented Lagos East Senatorial District and his state with unflinching commitment.
Omo-Agege also recalled the late lawmaker’s patriotic disposition.
He said: “It is a rude shock to receive the sad news of Senator Sikiru Adebayo Osinowo’s transition to the eternal realms. He was one of my colleagues whose passionate commitment to the grassroots I find uplifting and truly commendable.”