Senator Buruji Kashamu represented Ogun East in the National Assembly between 2015 and 2019 and was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in the last general election. In this interview, he speaks on why reconciliation had been difficult in the crisis-ridden state chapter of the party. KUNLE OLAYENI reports   Ogun PDP is again enmeshed in crisis. What are the reasons for the latest disagreement, especially with your one-time ally and former chairman of the party in the state, Chief Adebayo Dayo? I believe that everyone has been following the situation in Ogun State since Adebayo Dayo betrayed the structure and the people behind the structure. You are well aware of all that had been going on between me and him and other leaders and elders and members of the party. It is very simple. Adebayo Dayo had been with us for good 10 years. He got all he’s supposed to have. He has achieved a lot of things since he got to that position. Before he became the party chairman, Adebayo Dayo was an hunter. He came with only one house which he did not even finish at that time, but he left with almost six houses. When it remained one month for him to leave that position, he decided to sell the structure to Ladi Adebutu and betray everyone of us. And that is why you have been seeing a lot of misunderstanding. That is why we have been exchanging words between each other. Even if I’m going to say something from now till tomorrow, it’s not going to change anything. Only the action and the fact that the matter is now in court which the other exco and members have engaged in. We have to leave that matter. But it is left for you to draw the truth from all we have been publishing for you to be able to determine or know the truth. If I had to continue to be dragging, it will not change anything. I have decided to leave this mattYou seem to be passionate about the
development and success of PDP. Doer in the hands of a competent court to decide. You seem to be passionate about the development and success of PDP. Do you have plans to strengthen the party in Ogun State? That is what we have started. When we lost election in 2019, I had to stay behind to put things in order because I lost a lot of money. For good four years, I’ve been fighting to put the party together but some people are on the other side trying to destroy the party; I mean Ladi Adebutu. But at the end of the day, you can see that during the election, I was on the side of the law and he, together with the national leadership, was on the side of illegality. When the law says this and they did contrary to the law, we had to fight to the last minute when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) decided who the candidate is. I have to say something here: if it wasn’t for Ladi Adebutu’s arrogance, there is no way we won’t be in government today. But because of his arrogance and the belief that he has arrived, he believes that he can betray anybody the way Engr Bayo Dayo betrayed. If Ladi Adebutu can take Engr Dayo to betray me, he should be able to know that Engr Bayo Dayo can do the same. But so far, the two of them are almost the same. If you remember, it was our group that gave Ladi Adebutu ticket to become a member of the House of Representatives. It wasn’t up to three months that he got there that he decided to make a U-turn and started fighting with the structure up till today because he wanted to become governor. He has never called me to tell me that he wants to become governor and I said I won’t support him. If you don’t tell me that you want to become a governor and you believe that, yes, your father has money and the only thing you have to do is for you to use the power of that money to betray me because my own best friend that you met with me, Ayo Fayose, is now supporting you. Fayose used him to destroy the foundation of the structure that I have built in the South-West. Then he believes that he can wrestle me to the ground, but I refused and that is why the problem continued up till today. Was the crisis responsible for the party loss during the election? There was no reason for us to lose that election if not because of the continuation of his betrayal. Though we were in court, we both agreed to work together and resolve that anyone that wins would take over later. Two days before the election, if you remember, the court delivered judgement in Abeokuta. But Adebutu packed all his own supporters to Allied People’s Movement (APM) and signed an agreement with the party. That is where they voted. He took almost 50 per cent of PDP supporters to the other side and he left maybe about 50 or 60 per cent, which I controlled. If he joined the APM and at the end of the day they could not win election that time, why does he have to continue with the problem? What makes him to think that even if he succeeds in getting the structure from us that he will be able to win the election after he failed to win election when he joined APM the other time that APC still defeated us? And what makes you think that even if you take the structure and push Kashamu away, you would be able to win? After we lost election, I moved back to reorganize because I lost a lot of things in my business. I stayed quiet to rest for one year or one and half years hoping that from there, we could start putting things together. But by doing that, they believed that maybe I’m weak. And from there, they started writing all this rubbish and eventually, Engr Bayo Dayo decided to betray. If they want to kill this party, is it not better for me to intervene immediately and to start putting things in order? So, that was why I decided to do so and since about two to three months back, all our members that went to APC have started coming back and we have started reinforcing the structure and I believe that very soon, all members of the Ladi group who are not satisfied over there, will return. Eighty per cent of those who are with Ladi Adebutu are tired, many of them have been calling to say that he doesn’t know politics. And the fact that I even declared that it’s okay, Ladi is my younger, I don’t want to contest for governorship again, I don’t want to contest for Senate again, he is the one that is looking for governorship, let us join hands to reconcile everybody so that we can be stronger to face opponents. But he wants to be the alpha and omega, he doesn’t want any other person to outshine him. That’s why he can never allow the resolution of the PDP crisis in the state. That’s the reality. Otherwise, can one person have the party’s structure in the state? No! The structure belongs to many people. You can only be a financier of the party but that does not mean you can be the sole leader of the party. I don’t know how we can handle things without our former governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel. If Ladi can have the guts to rubbish the man and say that without Gbenga Daniel he can win in Ogun State, how does he think it is going be possible? Can I say without the man I can win in Ogun State? It’s not possible because all these members that we are carrying up and down belong to Gbenga Daniel before and a majority of them who have power, money and are real leaders are still loyal to our leader, Gbenga Daniel .  A chieftain of the party once said the problem of PDP in the country started in Ogun State and that if it will ever end; the party’s leaders have to come back to Ogun State. You have mentioned some of the factors militating against reconciliation, how possible is it that PDP in Ogun State will have all these matters settled permanently? I have said that I have proposed reconciliation to them, but if they are not willing, the problem will continue. I can only do what I can do to put other people together, except at the end of the day, if those who are with him realise that he does not have where to take them to. At least 75 per cent of those people that went there are my own people, but many of them are coming back now. If I can be able to convince about 75 to 80 per cent more and they join us, then we would not need him. As it stands now, I’m ready to sacrifice whatever it is in order for the party to be stable in the state. That is why I proposed that let us do reconciliation. Even though Ladi said he wants to be governor, I said okay, I give you but that does not mean only you would be the candidate. If we want the PDP to win in Ogun State,yes, all of us can support you and be behind you. Likewise, other people can come to contest. But as for me, I will never contest for any position in Ogun State again. But there is no way he (Ladi) should see himself as alpha and omega like he is doing, that the party will move forward. It’s not possible. If you want to contest for governorship and another person wants to contest for governorship, as soon as you know that Ladi is the sole candidate in the PDP, will you come? You won’t join them. So, how do you want the party to be settled? It’s going to be difficult. And that is the game he’s playing now. He thinks he is the alpha and omega and he alone can win. You joined APM you did not win, how can you imagine that if you don’t reconcile with Kashamu, Gbenga Daniel and Dimeji Bankole, you can win election in Ogun State? He must be joking. So, we have started the reconciliation but the only person causing problem is Ladi Adebutu, but I urge the national leadership to leave us because all politics are local. They should leave us to resolve our problem in Ogun State. Fayose should keep to his Ekiti State because he is facing his own problem over there with Senator Olujimi. He should remove his hands from Ogun State matter. Someone who could not resolve his problem in Ekiti, how can he get involved in Ogun State problem? Fayose, who was taken as a leader of South-West before, could not even do anything in the last election; how can he be fighting again now that he wants to become leader in the South- West? What kind of leader is that when we have a respectable governor, Seyi Makinde? We have other leaders. We have our father, Bode George, as a leader of South-West PDP. All these people are supposed to come together in order for us to be stronger, but we are not doing that. How can one person be playing with Uche Secondus because of the second term position that he is looking for. You are asking Secondus that they should not allow Olagunsoye Oyinlola to come in because Oyinlola wants to become national chairman and that is why Secondus has started doing a lot of things in the South- West, changing many structures in the zone. Where is it going to take us to? It can’t take us to anywhere. So, the problem now is not only the problem of Ogun State, it’s the problem that surrounds the South-West the beginning. I have just said that this is a business opportunity that Ladi Adebutu believes in. There is no way he will ever accept reconciliation. I have already declared that if Adebutu says he is looking for governorship, let him have it. This is our last opportunity for Remo. I have never been against Ladi being a governor. I have never been against Ladi being a senator. It is not in my power, it is within the power of Almighty God. Even if I say I want to do this or that, who am I? It is only God that decides. You’ve seen all the challenges I’ve faced in this country; do I have power to exonerate myself ? But it is Almighty only that sees my heart, whenever they bring the problem, He removes me from the problem. That alone speaks volume. I do not have juju, I do not rely on anybody except Almighty Allah. There is no problem I have not seen since I entered politics, but God would just come and take me out. I have never for once refused any reconciliation. But the truth of the matter is: Reconciliation is not possible with Ladi Adebutu because that is his own way of making money. If he lost the judgement two days to election in 2019, and quickly moved to join APM, signed an agreement with them; does he want something good thing for the PDP? Am I not a member of PDP? I once supported his ticket to House of Representatives, what does it take in supporting me if it is true that he loves and wants the PDP to succeed? Why did he have to move and sell our party members to APM? Then after APM lost – the agreement still remains two years – you still came back and started fighting that you are the leader, you want to take the structure of PDP? Is that how to manage the party? Why can’t you see that this man does not want anything called reconciliation? He wants to be alpha and omega; he wants to be the General of the Army; he wants to be everything and become governor. How can Ladi have the guts to fight with Gbenga Daniel that trained him and calling himself overall leader in Ogun State? So, how do you expect that kind of person to accept reconciliation? If Ladi is genuine and what he is looking for is governorship, I would be willing to support him but that does not mean other people cannot aspire. Would you suggest the sharing of the party exco between the warring factions? When you are talking about reconciliation, it is about sharing. If this is the structure of the exco, and we are three groups, we share it across. One group will take chairman; another will take deputy, while the other takes secretary. Then you bring your people, I bring my people and we mix everybody together. Then from there, we start financing the party; spread everything across all the local governments. That is the only way. But they are not ready to do so. And if they are not ready, we can only continue in our way until we build the party and it gets stronger. But I’m ready to do everything within my capacity to make sure that the structure stands and all our members come back to PDP.    