…says he got musician’s nude pictures from old memory card   A 19-year-old boy, Olufowoke Oladunjoye Emmanuel, has told the police in Lagos why he tried to blackmail the Waka Queen, Salawa Abeni.  Emmanuel also told his interrogators he was there when his mother was cursing Salawa’s blackmailers not knowing he was the culprit.  The suspect, a National Diploma Holder (OND) of Electrical Engineering, Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) was arrested by the  Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Ikeja, Lagos, for threatening to release nude pictures of the popular musician on the internet if she didn’t pay him money.    The RRS officials were shocked to discover that a teenager was behind the blackmailing of Salawa.  Emmanuel said he was the mastermind of the ploy to publish Salawa’s nude pictures in exchange for money. He added that he was alone in the scheme.  The suspect explained that he saw the nude pictures in a memory card which he picked on the ground on YABATECH campus sometime in November 2019.  After downloading Salawa’s nude pictures on his phone, he then got her mobile number from her Instagram page and started chatting with her.  He said: “On April 1, 2020, I chatted her up and also called her after sending a few of the photos to her online. My intention was to negotiate with her for a few bucks and then destroy the photographs. I thought everything was going on fine until the following day when I heard the news of the blackmail over the radio.  “I was with my mother. My mother was even cursing the blackmailer, unknown to her that I was the person. I sneaked out, destroyed the memory card and threw my mobile phone and SIM card into a nearby wetland in Magboro. Since then, I never mentioned it to anyone or called Madam Salawa Abeni about it again.”   The suspect, living at Brentfield Avenue, Peace Estate, Magboro, Ogun State, was picked up by the Decoy Team of RRS on Thursday, after three days of surveillance.   The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, sequel to the attempt to blackmail Salawa sometime in April 2020, directed RRS Commander, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Mr. Olatunji Disu, to fish out the suspect.   A police source said: “After technical diagnosis of the complaint, the Decoy Team narrowed down on the suspect a few days later. The suspect couldn’t be picked because of the prevalence of COVID-19.”  Odumosu stated that no individual would be allowed to commit a crime in Lagos from any state or escape to other states in Nigeria to evade arrest.  He added: “Parents and guardians should monitor their wards. The internet is a fertile ground for opportunities but the command will not allow criminals to use it as avenue to exploit law-abiding Lagosians.”  