  T he crux of this piece is far from joining the debate on reforestation of Nigeria. Though global warning has been a major concern to environmentalists and world leaders in the last couple of years, fact is I’m not aware of any research to the effect that Nigeria is badly affected by desert encroachment. However, I found it I rather benumbing that lives, livelihood and indeed billions of dollars are lost annually due to our failure to take advantage of the resources available in the nation’s hundred of forests for its invaluable economic, social and scientific benefits. It is an understatement to say that Nigeria has hundreds of forests, but that is not far from the truth. As the most populous black nation in the world, spread across 923,000 kilometres square, Nigeria’s landmass is also the largest in Africa. Nigeria’s forests, which according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation cover about 10 per cent of its landmass, evoke trepidation in minds of the most valiant men, and even almost a no go area for the bravest of soldiers. This is because the forests have become a lurking place for criminals, kidnappers and terrorists. Growing up in the 70s, I recalled reading albeit with morbid fear, Chief. Daniel O. Fagunwa’s literary masterpiece, Ogboju Ode Ninu Igbo Irunmale, later translated Adventure in the Forest of a Thousand Daemons – A Hunter’s Saga by Prof. Wole Soyinka. Later I had to visit Igbo Olodunmare, (forest of the Almighty), in Ile-Oluji Oke-Igbo to have the feel of one of the forests. Other parts of the country like Ogun, Rivers, Borno, Kaduna, Akwa Ibom, Niger, Kebbi, and Bauchi parade numerous forests.  The mention of Sambisa Forest in Borno State, which houses the Sambisa Game Reserves, evokes gory conjectures having become the most notorious forest in the country, not only for its gigantic size, but of Boko Haram’s hideout. The Kumuku Forest in Birnin Gwari, Kaduna, cuts across about five other states, namely Katsina, Niger, Zamfara, Kebbi states. It is hardly puzzling, therefore, that the North-West, like its North-East have come under heavy terrorism, banditry and sundry criminality. No thanks to the fact that the forest provides ready hidey-hole to the criminals. The fact that security agencies have had to burst a number of kidnap cases in the South-West and South-East by combing the forests in the respective areas attest to the fact that the forest now house a new sets of daemons. For that reason, these atrocious bandits are farmers’ albatross of farmers, making governors in the North-West where the bandits have cut down over 2,500 people, sacked villages and local government, and rustled thousands of cattle birth in the Kumuku Forest shriek daily for help. The North Central has its regular taste on the criminality too, since it shares boundaries with other adjourned states. Interestingly, the forest reserves in Nigeria fall under the Ministry of Forestry in the states and the department in the Ministry of Agriculture. Usually these forests, along with their wildlife hold potentials for great economic and social benefits to the people, especially as it affects conservation and protection of endangered species. Among the numerous benefits of forests are timber production, recreation, hunting, watershed and fisheries protection, wildlife and biodiversity protection. When adequately developed, forestry whether agro forestry, bamboo forestry, analogue forestry, closes to nature forestry, ecoforestry, plantation forestry or energy forestry support the economy with timber and rubber production. It provides employments for specialists in the various areas, like ecologists, environmentalists, even as timber cruisers, log scalars, rangers and truck drivers earn their livelihood from it. Experts have also argued that industries like palm oil, rayon, rail transport, tree farming, logging, biomass and charcoals are some of such depend heavily on forestry. It is on record that logging was a huge source of income in many the country, feeding sawmills and providing plants furniture and roofing of houses and other purposes. Similarly, massive production of rubber and oil were sources of income in the Southern parts of the country. Some decades ago, companies like Dunlop Nigeria Plc relied on the rubber from Edo and Delta states for the productions of tyres, plastic seats and bowls, slippers with remarkable economic and social benefits to the states. Palm oil was not only produced for local consumption but also for export. Ironically, the reverse is the case today as Nigeria spends about $600million annually on importation of oil. In the same vein, our cocoa in the West and the cotton in the North, once the mainstay of the economy of the two regions must be revamped by reclaiming the forest. As a young man in the 80s, I relished inviting aroma of cocoa emanating from the plants of Cadbury Nigeria Limited, which derived its raw materials from cocoa. Similarly, scores of textile companies in the North, like Arewa Textiles and Kaduna Testile relied heavily on cotton produced heavily across the Niger. Today Chinese opportunists have taken over our forests, felling and exporting various woods we have failed to utilise, and conversely, Nigeria Newsprint Manufacturing Company, Oku Iboku in Cross Rivers State is dead and buried. Publishing companies have resorted to sourcing millions of dollars for importation of newsprints. It’s time to reverse this ugly and shameful trend;  it’s time to reclaim our forests from criminals hibernating there, as did of Falgore Forest, by the Kano State Government which recently constructed a military base for soldiers, in order to make it uninhabitable for criminals, but enabling to farmers and agricultures produce. As the nation prepares for the post-COVID-19 era, in the face of dwindling income from oil, reclaiming our forest for agricultural purposes should be up on the cards. Like Ebonyi, Ogun and Ondo states which earmarked billions of naira for agriculture recently, it’s time to pay adequate attention to the sector. The vanity of over-dependence on a mono-product economy as manifested in the recent crash of oil should jolt the state governments to reclaim its forests, invest in them, grow its income and reap the multiple benefits derivable therefrom.  