•Governor will be an asset to party –Atiku
•His defection non-issue, says APC It was a new dawn for leadership and members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Edo State chapter as the state’s Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, yesterday formally joined the party, after weeks of speculations and political horse trading, following his disqualification by the screening committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), ahead of its governorship primaries for June 22. For the elders, leaders and members of the PDP, Obaseki’s coming to use the party’s platform for the realisation of his second term ambition, was the best thing to happen to them, after about 13 years of PDP’s inglorious exit from the seat of power at the Government House, Benin City. Obaseki, who stormed the PDP secretariat on the First East Circular Road, Benin City, about 12:26pm to the warm embrace of a mammoth crowd of the party leaders, elders and members, including members of the National Assembly, said he came to join the fold, after consulting widely with leaders and members of the party at the state and national levels. Although, three other governorship aspirants of the party, including Mr. Kenneth Imansuagbon, Gideon Ikkine and Omoregie Ogbeide Ihama, were conspicuously absent, at the brief ceremony held amid sheers and fanfare. Saturday Telegraph, however, gathered that Imansuagbon and Omoregie have consistently insisted that they would never step down for Obaseki or any other contestant ahead do the party’s gubernatorial primaries initially slated for June 19 but shifted to June 25. At a closed door meeting held in Benin, Imasuagbon was said to have stormed out of the parley between key PDP leaders and Obaseki and his team, which was designed to persuade the trio to step down for the incumbent governor. It will be recalled that the PDP was stripped off power after the Appeal Court in Benin sacked the then state Governor, Professor Oserheimen Osunbor, following internal wrangling, and in his place, the appellate Court pronounced candidate of the defunct Action Congress and later Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and now APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as governor elect of the state. Oshiomhole under the ruling APC presided over the affairs of the state for eight years and handed over to Obaseki. Both Obaseki and his predecessor and embattled National Chairman of the APC fell out of favour over deep misunderstanding over the control of the party structure and the state House of Assembly, a development which snowballed to the governor being axed out of the party. I’m confident of victory -Obaseki However, Obaseki, who acknowledged cheers from the mammoth crowd of party faithful and admirers who thronged the area, was given the party’s membership card by Ward 4 in Oredo Local Government Area of the state, was received at the secretariat by the state’s PDP Chairman, Mr. Tony Aziegbemi. Speaking, Obaseki said: “I am here this afternoon to inform you that upon my resignation from the All Progressives Congress (APC), I have now decided having consulted very widely within the state and across the country to become a member of the PDP. “The PDP in my view, has demonstrated and shown that it is a party that is rooted in democratic practices; the party that believes in justice and fairness, a party that respects its people. Today is not a day of long speech, I will take the speech short, you will hear from me soon. “Today, I am here to go through the formalities of registering as a member of this great party. I know and I understand fully well the implications of these decisions. “I know that upon taking up membership of this party, I automatically become the leader of the party in the state; that is the constitution. I read it thoroughly last night and I want to assure all of you that I am prepared to provide leadership. “I am prepared to provide leadership that will lead this party’s to victory and I am prepared to provide leadership that will not only put PDP in office in Edo state but as the ruling party in Edo state, we will make sure that the level of progress, the level of hope and the level of participation in the political system by our party is unrivalled in this country. “I am very happy to be here, the reception I have received since I drove in here has been ecstatic, the energy I see in this party is the kind of energy I require to take Edo to the level we should go to next. “So, if indeed we have done anything in the last four years, you haven’t seen anything yet because with the quality of people I see here, the energy of the youths I see, by the grace of God victory will be possible. “I am committing to you that I will not only lead this party to victory in Edo State, but we will now make sure that this party establishes an example of how states will be run in Africa, so, today, it is with great pleasure that I have come to formally take up my membership of this great party.” S’South leaders back gov Others on hand to receive the governor are the Senator representing Edo South senatorial district at the National Assembly, Senator Matthew Urhoghide, former lawmakers under the party’s platform, leaders and elders of the party. He was accompanied to the party’s secretariat by some top government functionaries including Mr. Charles Idahosa, Obaseki’s Political Adviser, Chief Osaro Idah, the immediate past Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Kabiru Adjoto, Osaigbovbo Iyioha, among others. Earlier, Deputy Governor of the state, Mr. Philip Shaibu, had arrived the party’s secretariat with his team to also collect the card of the PDP. Aziegbemi, who spoke while receiving Obaseki, said: “We as PDP family are very excited the state governor has joined us with all his commissioners, House of Assembly members, council chairmen. “So with this, it is very clear even to the blind that come September 19, Edo State will be a fully a PDP State. We are grateful to God for making this day happen.” On whether about the fate of the three aspirants who had earlier been cleared to contest for the governorship race, Aziegbemi said: “Obaseki will contest alongside the three namely; Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, Kenneth Imansuangbon and Gideon Ikhine, adding that nobody is being pressurized to step down except on their own will.” Also former Delta State chairman of the PDP, Chief Emmanuel Ogidi, who is also the PDP National Vice- Chairman, South/South, noted that all the processes leading to the defection of Obaseki was smooth and successful, adding that there was no problem with the negotiation.” He said: “So, we are happy that the governor and his deputy are coming in to pick ticket ones.” Secondus: Gov’s journey, an act of God National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has charged the Governor of Edo state Godwin Obaseki to see his entry into the PDP as an act of God which should guide his attitude in the party. He said: “From what I saw in Benin City today after I joined this party, the increased goodwill, the excitement of the people from all works of life from their balcony, I told myself no wonder… “What I have seen here is a far cry from the confusion and commotion from the other side and left me to wonder Why I didn’t have this opportunity before now.” His defection, courageous, patriotic – PDP The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the defection of Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to its platform as courageous. The party, however, praised the commitment, dedication and sacrifices of its leaders, stakeholders and members in Edo State, whom, it said, had continued to work hard to keep the party alive and made it attractive to the people of the state. PDP in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that Edo State has always been home to the party, adding that a PDP government would always put the interest of the people first in line with the party’s manifesto and guiding principles. Meanwhile, the party has reportedly granted waiver to Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shuaibu, to contest the September 19 Edo governorship election. Ologbondiyan, on his Twitter handle, said: “@OfficialPDPNig grants waiver for @GovernorObaseki to enable him contest the gubernatorial primary of our great party. Party has also approved waiver for his deputy, Philip Shuaibu.” Obaseki’ll be an asset to PDP – Atiku Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar has expressed the hope that Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, will be a asset to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Atiku, who equally left APC in 2017 to pitch tent with PDP, called for the eradication of what he described as “undemocratic tendencies” in the nation’s body politic. In a statement by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, the former vice president said: “I am happy that you have finally exited the oppressive ruling party and joined the truly democratic party in Nigeria.” APC: Obaseki’s defection not news The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has said the defection of the governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki is no longer a news. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said this in reaction to the news of the governor’s defection. When contacted on phone for reaction on the development, Issa-Onilu said: “It has not come to us as a surprise.” Obaseki has liberated Edo people-Group An Edo socio-cultural group, Esan Club 30, has said it will stand shoulder to shoulder with the State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki for the continuity of his sterling performance and consolidation of good governance in the state. In a statement signed by the Chairman, Mr. Francis Oriakhi, described Obaseki as a man of scalable intellect and a man of class with a dignified personality. He said: “It would be distasteful or out of mischief for anyone not to notice and acknowledge the evenhandedness of the governor as well as the equitable distribution of infrastructural amenities in the state.” Again, PDP shifts its primary The Peoples Democratic party (PDP) has again shifted its primary election for Edo governorship election. The primary will now hold on June 25, as against June 23 it was earlier shifted. This is apparently to enable Governor Godwin Obaseki who defected to the party on Friday, to obtain his nomination form. Obaseki is expected to obtain his nomination form on Monday next week. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had fixed June 27 as the last day for the conduct of party primaries by political parties wishing to field candidate for the Edo State governorship election. APC rejects Uzodinma-led c’ttee The factional Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Edo State, Mr. Anslem Ojezua, yesterday rejected the Imo State Governor Hope Uzodinma -led committee constituted by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to conduct direct primary to elect the party’s candidate in the state. Ojezua in a statement made available to journalists in Benin City, said the committee was inaugurated while there was a controversy over the status of sacked National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole and therefore cannot stand. “We have on good authority that Victor Giadom, the acting National Secretary has been empowered by the Feder Capital Territory High Court in Abuja to act in that capacity.” Court decides Ize- Iyamu fate June 25 The High Court sitting in Benin, Edo State capital, will on June 25 decide the fate of the governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, over the May 21 waiver granted him to contest the September 19 Governorship election by members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. Justice Emmanuel Ahamioje, said judgement on the suit would be delivered on the stated date after Counsel to the parties made their submissions to the court at yesterday’s proceedings. Justice Ahamioje said: “Do not give money to anybody on my behalf. I will never send anybody to collect money for me.” The NWC of the APC had fixed June 22 for Edo governorship primary election, using direct mode.