PHILIP NYAM reports on the recommendations by the House of Representatives for the Nigerian Army to recruit additional 100,000 soldiers to tackle insurgency in the country    There is no doubt that insurgency, banditry, herdsmen attacks and sundry crimes have continued unabated across the country. In spite of the concerted efforts put in place by the Federal Government and various security agencies, scores of people have continued to lose their lives. Also, millions of Nigerians have been displaced from their homes, while many are forced to live in internally displaced persons (IDP) camps. It is a known fact that the nation’s security forces have been overstretched due to the activities of these criminal groups. The military is also involved in quelling internal crises such as inter-ethnic and tribal skirmishes, armed robbery and kidnapping. Consequently, the House of Representatives believe that there is the need to beef up the numerical strength of armed forces if the war against insurgency must be won by the nation. Nigeria’s population is said to be well over 200 million people with a large land mass and if it must be securely protected from the rampaging insurgents, it will require a commensurate number of military personnel. Against this backdrop, the House of Representatives on Tuesday, urged the Federal Government to as a matter of national emergency, empower the Nigerian Army to recruit additional 100,000 soldiers to make up for the shortfall in its manpower the same way it did during the civil war. The lawmakers also advised that government should respond to the Boko Haram crisis and other related security challenges more vigorously than the way it has responded to the COVID-19 pandemic. This advice was given following the adoption of the report of the Joint Committee on Army, Defence, Airforce, National Security and Intelligence on the recent attack by Boko Haram insurgents at Auno Village in Borno State presented by its chairman, Hon. Abdulrazak Sa’ad Namdas (APC, Adamawa). They House, in making the recommendation, reasoned that the recruitment of an additional 100,000 troops can be achieved, given the huge num-ber of unemployed youths, who are available and ready to enlist into the army to fight terrorism, banditry and associated crimes. The green chamber submitted that the training ground for such number of recruits should be increased and fully equipped with necessary training facilities, in addition to what the nation has at the Zaria Depot, which is currently the only place where army recruits are trained. It also advised that the Nigerian Army should recall retired officers and men and keep them on reserve for use as and when needed, in line with the Armed Forces Act (Part VII Section 25), provided they are physically fit and not above 50 years of age. The joint committee recommended: “That in as much as the Nigerian Army has tried to justify the rationale behind the creation of Super Camps, the committee believes that a lack of adequate manpower is partly responsible for their establishment. “This is because the Army does not have enough personnel to hold ground for a long time after defeating Boko Haram in some villages hence it resorts to collapsing the thinly held and sparsely resourced troops’ locations to form super camps. With a massive recruitment of new soldiers, there would be no need for super camps” “The number of Nigerians killed by insurgents and bandits is obviously far higher than the number of people killed by COVID–19. Therefore, more resources, equipment and training should be given to the Armed Forces to enable them defeat Boko Haram once and for all” Presenting the findings of the committee, Namdas informed: “That the Army has been doing its best to boost the morale of its officers and men within the available resources,but there is room for improvement. “That there is a lack of police presence in Auno village in spite of allegation by the Army that insurgents were being harboured in the area. In view of this, the police should be deployed to Auno to help maintain the internal security of the village. “That the joint training and exercises by members of the Armed Forces should be encouraged to avoid misunderstanding among the personnel if we are to win the war on terror.” It will be recalled that the House had on February 12, mandated its Joint Committee on Army, Defence, Airforce, National Security and Intelligence to investigate the Auno attacks in Borno, where many people were massacred. On February 9, stranded commuters at Auni village were attacked and killed by Boko Haram insurgents. The House joint committee found out that the “commuters were not given any security cover or protection by soldiers deployed to secure Maiduguri- Damaturu highway when they were stranded at Auno village after failing to adhere to the curfew imposed in the area, becoming easy targets for Boko Haram attack” The House observed that the attack, which left many people dead and several motor vehicles burnt could have been avoided or at least its severity minimised, had both the commuters and the soldiers deployed to secure Maiduguri-Damaturu highway behaved responsibly. According to the lawmakers, “if the commuters had adhered strictly to the curfew timing, they would not have been stopped at the gate by soldiers and subsequently attacked by the Boko Haram insurgents. In the same vein, if soldiers had provided security cover or protection to the stranded commuters, they would have saved them from the insurgents attack or helped reduce its severity, the insurgents (or at least some of them) would have been killed or captured and the casualty figure on the part of the commuters significantly reduced.” The joint committee equally found out that police presence was lacking in Auno, despite the strategic location of the village and increasing number if attacks witnessed in the area. It however submitted that “Boko Haram remains a threat in Borno State and beyond, despite concerted efforts by the military. In the past one year, the insurgents have reportedly attacked Borno State and its environs over 400 times, killing many innocent people. On their part, the Nigerian armed forces have repelled many of those attacks and equally attacked, captured and killed scores of the Boko Haram militants hibernating within Borno State and in other enclaves.” The joint committee reported that according to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai, several efforts have been put in place by Operation Lafiya Dole to prevent further attacks and some of the strategies include review of curfew timing from 5.am to 1.am daily in order to allow for continuous movement of commuters. “The Theatre Command has increased troops’ presence and deployed additional military resources along the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway including additional gun trucks, armoured vehicles and support weapons. This has enabled troops to effectively dominate their environment denying the terrorists freedom of action as no insurgent activity has been reported within the area and along the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway since the unfortunate incident at Auno on February 9.” The joint committee also learnt from the army high command that “the Theatre Command with support from the Army Headquarters and the Borno State government has embarked on the excavation o trenches around Auno village. This step has so far denied the terrorists access to the village. Since the excavation, there has been no recorded of terrorists’ activities. Similarly, efforts are currently ongoing for the excavation of both sides of the entire Maiduguri- Damaturu highway to frustrate the insurgents’ activities along the route.” Given the advice by the House, some security analysts are of the view that if the prompt and close attention given to the fight against COVID-19 is extended to the war against insurgency, Nigeria would have cleansed its land of the mess. They have also contended that the insurgents kill more than the pandemic the nation is grappling with at the moment hence renewed efforts, energy and resources should be invested in the military to tackle terrorism once and for all. 