Members of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are expected to elect the candidate to fly the party’s flag in the September 19 governorship election in the state, but FELIX NWANERI and CAJETAN MMUTA report that the exercise would be a mere endorsement of the candidacy of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu     I t is coronation of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the September 19 governorship election in Edo State as the ruling party at the centre… M any churches in Oyo state went agog yesterday after about three months of shutdown as they held their services with many of them complying with the 25 capacity attendance directed by Governor Seyi Makinde as well as hygiene protocols to curtail widespread community transmission of coronavirus.   Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force headed by the governor had on 15th June, 2020 lifted the ban placed on religious gatherings across the state with some conditions attached to the reopening of churches and mosques.   The conditions were that Mosques and… T he All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders, elders, leaders and office holders in Ilorin East Local Government Area of Kwara State have continued to drum support for Governor AbdulRaman AbdulRazaq even as they also recognised Hon. Bashir Bolarinwa, as the chairman of the party in the local government.     The stakeholders at the weekend declared support for Governor AbdulRazaq as the leader of the party in the state.   This was part of the resolutions reached by the party leaders after their meeting in Ilorin, the state capital.  … Oyo State governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde, speaks in this interview on his first year in office, the policies, programmes and challenges of his administration. FELIX NWANERI brings the excerpts       It is a year since you were inaugurated as the governor of Oyo State. Looking at the last 12 months, what would you say is on ground now compared to the days before your assumption of office?     We thought we were dealing with a transparent system and we tried to have a feel of what is… W hen President Muhammadu Buhari ordered a forensic audit on the operations of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), he was responding to the persistent criticisms that the organisation had been a cesspool of corruption.     There has been a general perception that the corruption in the system has been largely responsible for the poor performance of the interventionist agency and the gross under-development of the oil-rich region.     How do we justify the huge resources that has been invested in the NDDC in the past… AKEEM NAFIU writes that lawyers were unanimous that the worsening security challenges in the country would scare investors out of the country. This, they said, was already portraying the government of President Muhammadu Buhari in bad light in view of unending protests from the President’s home state     S ome lawyers have expressed great displeasure over growing spate of insecurity in the country. The lawyers said the reported killing and maiming of innocent Nigerians, particularly in the North by the day by bandits was worrisome.     The lawyers… Substantial Respondents listed obtaining finance, others as most pressing problems of MSMEs   M icro, Small and Medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) in the country face a financing gap of about N617.3 billion annually, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC ) Nigeria  has said. The firm stated this while presenting the findings of  its latest survey of MSMEs in Nigeria.      The survey findings were revealed during a recent webinar hosted by the firm for MSMEs on Managing the Impact of COVID-19 and Repositioning Your Business for Growth. The report titled, “PwC’s MSME Survey… The Rector, Certified Institute of Shipping of Nigeria (CISN), Alex Favour Okwuashi, a professor of maritime administration, in this interview with BAYO AKOMOLAFE,  says the maritime industry can grow the nation’s economy after coronavirus crisis, if government focuses on infrastructure development and capacity building   What was your observation of the port industry when coronavirus was first noticed in the country?       The recent lockdown has exposed the nation’s ill-preparedness to national emergencies such as the outbreak of coronavirus and other maritime emergencies as always seen during… T he Compliance Review and Mediation Unit (BCRM), the Secretariat of the African Development Bank’s (AfDB’s) Independent Review Mechanism (IRM), has organized an information webinar for civil society organizations (CSOs) on “Handling Complaints from People Affected by Projects Financed” by the Bank.     The webinar was organized in partnership with three  CSOs: Accountability Counsel in the USA, Lumiere Synergie pour le Developpement (LSD) in Senegal and the Centre pour le Developpement de la Region de Tensift (CDRT in Morocco with the support of the Bank’s Civil Society and Community… S enate Chief Whip and Senator representing Abia North in the Senate, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has expressed concern over the incessant boundary clashes between the Isu Community in Arochukwu council area of Abia State and their Utuama neighbours in Biase council of Cross River State, which had claimed many lives and property.     He, however, called for proper demarcation of the boundary.     Kalu, who made the call through chairperson of the Orji Uzor Kalu (OUK) Foundation, Mrs. Jemima Ola Kalu, during flag off distribution of relief…