T he following are some of the means that businesses and organisations collect personal data from persons, which could be abused if not properly stored or protected:  Web-bugs: A web-bug is an invisible Hypertext Mark-up Language (HTML) object inserted in a webpage designed to track a visitor’s movement across the Internet.   Cookies: Cookies allow web servers to identify repeat visitors, preferences, and usage patterns.   JavaScript: JavaScript programmes can access information stored in the browser, including cached objects and the history of visited websites.   Device fingerprinting: An individual’s fingerprint is a set of information elements that identifies a device or an application. Therefore, device fingerprinting is a technology that combines a set of information elements to uniquely identify particular devices or applications.   Protecting privacy in the modern era is essential to effective and good democratic governance. Data protection policies revolve around set out guidelines that prescribes the principles and rules that influences the ongoing compliance with data protection laws. Institutions, public or private, that collect and use personal data must: be subject to rigorous regulations providing them with standards on how to handle any data they process; be compelled to be transparent and accountable; be subject to checks and balances; fulfil the rights of individuals; respect the rule of law.   Why data should be protected? The most valuable thing on devices and network of organizations and individuals is the data created and stored there. Applications and operating systems can always be reinstalled, but user-created data is unique. If it gets lost or viewed without authorization, the outcome can be devastating.   An organisation’s network may contain documents with trade secrets, personal information about employees or clients, or the organisation’s financial records. Applications on an individual’s phone, computer or other personal devices may expose credit cards, and bank account information. In either case, identity theft is a real possibility, and one that is becoming frequent in our digital age.   How data can be protected? Although vital, protecting organisation’s privacy and security does not have to be a complex or daunting task. The following are some simple strategies you can put in place to keep your data from being breached:   i. Encryption (even when hackers access the organisation information, encryption will prevent them from using it).  ii. Acceptable use of policy (to keep employees from malware and viruses, as well as prevent them from slacking. Although it does not need to be too strict because private social life in the workplace must not be eliminated).   iii. Password policies (as to what characters must be contained in every employee password).  iv. Email policies  With all these policies in place and properly enforced, organisations reduce or eliminate data breaches and leakages which could lead to award of huge sum of damages.   Eliminating the risk of working from home  Remote working poses several challenges regarding data protection and privacy. Particularly, employers will not be able to control data leakage neither can they guarantee employees compliance to data privacy policies. In resolving concerns arising from this dilemma, the following measures for safeguarding data and security breaches are strongly recommended:   • Workshop on safeguarding data maintained and owned by organisations as employees work from home.   • Cloud storage services   • Proper disposal of sensitive information considered irrelevant.   • Categorisation of data such as client’s details, transaction records, matters/brief previously handled or currently ongoing, as either (sensitive or insensitive).   • Use of a cloud back-up solution.   • Access to data should be limited and for necessary purposes only.  • Multi-factor authentication.   • Accountability (showing who has accessed data, when and from what location and device.   • More stringent password policies be put in place.  • Stricter implementation of data privacy policies.   • Employee access to basic security knowledge as to data protection  • Privacy policies.   •Employee access to basic security knowledge as to data protection associated with remote working.  •Provision of Virtual Private Network (VPN) access.  While multinationals and a couple of forward-looking organisations had since embraced ‘flexi work’ as a part of their work philosophy, others are surprised that employees could really get some good quality work done outside the confines of the office.  Without a doubt, post-COVID-19, remote working is the new normal. In this new normal, organisations are enjoined to have all it requires to make a seamless transition with no consequent liabilities arising from non-compliance with data and privacy regulations.   To reduce the risks associated with moving businesses online, NITDA has requested all companies to fulfil certain basic requirements such as submission of data protection audit reports, which must be accompanied by a verification statement by a Data Protection Compliance Officer (DPCO) licensed by the NITDA. It was further stated that organisations that fail to file their data audit report entirely will be in breach of the NDPR and the NITDA Act 2007. This breach is a criminal offence which could attract criminal or other administrative sanctions.   •Akinrinwa and Soyode, Associates at SimmonsCooper Partners, writes from Lagos. 