Dangote Granite Mines Limited, a subsidiary of Dangote Group said it had provided food palliatives and scholarships to five communities in Ijebu-Igbo in Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State. The palliatives, meant to reduce the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic on residents of the area, were taken round the communities and handed over to the people while the cheques for the scholarship awards were handed over to the Ijebu-Igbo monarch in his palace, who in turn gave them to the community heads for onward distribution to their children. Leading the management team of Dangote Projects to the Ijebu-Igbo palace, the Group General Manager, Human Resources, Mr. Fola Ebenezer Ali, said the company would “continue to do whatever will promote progress in the communities within which the mines granite”. Ali explained that the management would have loved to gather the awardees together in an elaborate ceremony but because of the global safety protocols to follow in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, which was why the management presented the cheques to the royal father who in turn would present them to the heads of the communities.
He said the cheques for the secondary school beneficiaries were made out in the names of individual pupils while those of the higher institutions across the country were drawn in the name of institutions where the students were studying. He said: “We would have done this long ago but for COVID-19. We, however, thank God that we are starting the distribution of scholarship and bursary awards now in Ijebu-Igbo. We are giving out scholarship each to indigent students that are indigenes of Ijebu-Igbo who are in various tertiary institutions across the country. Also, we are giving scholarship to each pupil in some secondary schools. “I promise, on behalf of the company, that this won’t be the end of it, it will not be a one-off scholarship and bursary award because Dangote Group plans, like it does for other host communities, to give scholarship and bursary awards to indigent students across its production plants in the country on yearly basis.” The monarch, the Sopelukale of Ijebu-Igbo, Oba Mufutau Yusuf, Erinkiola 1, expressed appreciation to Aliko Dangote for the good gestures in alleviating the hardship faced by the people. The royal father said the food palliatives came at the right time when families were finding it difficult to eat and feed their children. He said: “Not minding the coronavirus pandemic, he (Dangote) has come again to give us scholarship. We really appreciate this.” 