Less than a week after the demise of the lawmaker representing Lagos East Senator District, Senator Bayo Osinowo, politicians within his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), especially those within the constituency, might have put the party in dilemma over who succeeds the late senator. This is because the leaders of the party are said to be in a fix over the next step to take as politicians and their foot soldiers have started jostling for the vacant seat, even as they await official communication from the upper legislative chamber and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). But not waiting for the Senate or INEC to officially declare the seat vacant, the contest for who succeeds the late Senator has started earlier than expected, as about 10 politicians have already been linked with the intrigues. Checks by Saturday Telegraph revealed that though the process for Osinowo’s replacement has not been kicked off by the APC and INEC, names of possible replacements are already flying within the ruling party in Lagos as well as in the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Senator Osinowo died in Lagos after a brief illness at 64 and was buried in his home town in Ijebu, Ogun State on Monday. But while his family, constituents and supporters were still mourning the demise of the deceased, silent agitations for the senatorial seat had already commenced. A competent source within the party informed our correspondent that the intrigues began immediately after the burial of the Senator, noting that some foot soldiers of politicians, who were at the burial in Ijebu-Ode, were heard arguing over the issue. “Politicians are funny. I was surprised about what happened during the burial rites of Senator Osinowo. At the burial site, people were discussing who will take over from Pepper (Osinowo). In fact some of the APC leaders have started mentioning those who are likely to succeed Pepperito. “I can tell you that the party leaders are not happy with the development. These followers are just putting the leaders in a fix because the man has not been even declared dead by the Senate and INEC. The leaders are not happy with the pressure this is bringing. It is just a few days after his death”, he said. Ambode, Ikuforiji, Ashafa, others tipped Those already linked with the senatorial race in APC to fill the vacuum created by Osinowo’s death are immediate past governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode; former Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Adeyemi Ikuforiji and Osinowo’s predecessor, Senator Gbenga Ashafa. Others are the Director- General of Nigeria in Diaspora Commission, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa; member of Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), the apex leadership body of Lagos APC, Chief Lanre Rasak; former Lagos State Commissioner for Special Duties, Dr. Tola Kasali; a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Dayo Bush-Alebiosu, and a former commissioner who is representing Kosofe, Prince Rotimi Agunsoye. Some chieftains of the opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who have also been linked to the senatorial race, include Osinowo’s opponent in 2019 elections, Princess Abiodun Oyefusi and Action Democratic Party (ADP) 2019 governorship candidate, Babatunde Gbadamosi. Another source within the party said: “While some were mentioning Ambode, others were of the view that Ashafa should be allowed to return to the Senate. Some of the people at the burial also mentioned Ikuforiji and KLM (Rasak). “The incident without any iota of doubt showed that the jostle for Senator Osinowo’s seat has started in earnest,” the source who witnessed the burial of remains of Osinowo told Saturday Telegraph. Further investigation by Saturday Telegraph however revealed that while some of the rumoured aspirants are still silent over their aspirations for the senatorial slot, some party leaders and supporters have started dragging their principals into the race. It was gathered from multiple sources that people have already dragged Ambode, Ashafa and Ikuforiji into the senatorial contest. Based on the present permutation in the APC, the contest for the party’s candidate may be a renewal of the 2015 and 2019 elections rivalries in the ruling party. Renewal of hostilities Saturday Telegraph gathered that Ambode and Ikuforiji, who both wrestled for the APC governorship ticket during the 2015 primary elections, are among the top contenders for the Lagos East senatorial race. Though none of them is yet to speak on their rumoured aspiration but their loyalists and foot soldiers have already linked them to the race. Ambode and Ikuforiji as well as Rasak, who is also linked to the race are from Epe Local Government Area in Lagos East Senatorial District. Saturday Telegraph gathered that some people are pushing for Epe to produce Osinowo’s replacement to pacify the local government for denying them the opportunity for their son (Ambode) to serve for two terms, following how the former governor lost the APC governorship ticket to incumbent Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu due to internal wrangling in APC prior to 2019 elections. Based on the outcome of the 2019 polls, there is a strong move and pressure by some party leaders for Ambode to be given the senatorial slot. Those rooting for Ambode are of the view that the former governor should be compensated with the senatorial slot having been denied a second term ticket and also lost out in getting ministerial and federal appointment after leaving office in 2019. Saturday Telegraph also gathered that some party leaders in Kosofe Local Government Area, where Osinowo hails from are also putting pressure that the local government should be given the opportunity to produce the late senator successor. Among those being considered for the contest in Kosofe are Alebiosu, who is a son of APC GAC member, Otunba Busurat Alebiosu and Agunsoye, who is a member of the House of Representatives. As APC leaders in Epe and Kosofe are strategically positioning someone from the councils, politicians from other three local governments in Lagos East Senatorial District – Ibeju-Lekki, Somolu and Ikorodu, have also been linked to the senatorial race, among whom are Ashafa and Kasali (Ibeju-Lekki) and Dabiri-Erewa (Ikorodu) Speaking on the recent development in APC, a reliable source said: “There is pressure from different quarters in APC over Osinowo’s successor. People in Kosofe Local Government Area are insisting that the local government should be given the opportunity to produce Osinowo’s successor. “Some people are also pushing for Ambode. They are of the view that the senatorial seat should be used to compensate Ambode for not securing a second term ticket and for not getting any appointments since he left office. “Ikuforiji is also being linked to the race. Politicians from other local governments are also showing interest in the race. It is going to be a tough fight in APC and the contest may likely be a repeat of the battle of the 2015 and 2019 in the ruling party”, the source said. For the PDP, Saturday Telegraph gathered that Princess Oyefusi had already declared her interest for the senatorial poll, while there are pressures on Gbadamosi to join the race. One of Oyefusi’s strong allies told our correspondent that she would run. “Princess Oyefusi is going to run for the senatorial election. She was the PDP candidate in 2019. She has already indicated her interest and informed some of the party leaders. Some people are pressurising Gbadamosi to join the race. They believe he is popular. “Some people in PDP are also going to show interest in the election and they will definitely contest against Oyefusi and Gbadamosi for the PDP ticket,” the close associate of Oyefusi told Saturday Telegraph last night.