How my wife, son and I tested positive -Commissioner  P rincipal Secretary to Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, Chief Clement Nweke, and the Commissioner for Finance, Prof. Ogbonnaya Ogbu, yesterday narrated their experiences while down with coronavirus.  Nweke and Ogbu were among government officials who tested positive for the virus.  This was as the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Daniel Umezuruike, said Umahi was negative for coronavirus.  The state now has a total of 142 confirmed cases with 41 treated and discharged while 101 cases are still active.  However, Nweke and Ogbu were among the 41 patients who were treated. They were discharged at the Virology Centre constructed by Umahi for Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital Abakaliki (AE-FUTHA). Narrating his experience after being discharged, Nweke described it as horrible and that he was on oxygen for two days.  The principal secretary disclosed that his family members did not contract the virus because he usually go to work and return very late without any interaction with them.  He said: “I feel wonderful; I feel great. I feel like shouting to high heavens that I am now negative for COVID-19, I am now feeling fine. I am not surprised that my case choked the state because I happened to be one of the first public officers in the state who tested positive.   “The experience is horrible; you don’t need to get involved because I was already down with malaria. I have complication and I got into pneumonia. It is difficult for me to breathe and I had to call Dr. Daniel Umezuruike, the state Commissioner for Health. I told him to come and test me that I have issues. He responded very quickly and sent a doctor who took my sample. The commissioner even came to me and told me ‘this is not a death sentence’.    “I had difficulty in breathing. I was on oxygen for two days. So, a lot of people don’t understand; they said Covid-19 is a scam. It is not a scam; it is a reality. The only thing is that a lot of people, because of their possible high immunity and symptomatic, carry it around and spread to the society. It is dangerous particularly if you  have already existing medical conditions like myself who was already down with malaria and already had complications.   “It is a mystery to me how I contracted this disease because anybody who knows me, knows that I was very strict in maintaining precautionary measures. But one thing that came to light after my case is that a lot of people are positive.  My family; my first wife, everybody was lucky because I go to work and come in late. I don’t have a lot of interaction with the family.” On his part, the Commissioner for Finance, Ogbu said he was having pneumonia and difficulty in breathing.   Ogbu said at a time, he was lacking oxygen and needed oxygen support which was immediately given to him to save his life.  The commissioner disclosed that his wife and his son (a 400 level student) also tested positive for the virus and would soon be discharged like him.  He said: “It was a mystery to me to come down with Covid-19 because of my strictness in the Ministry of Finance and also in the Board of Internal Revenue. You don’t get to my office without sanitizing, without your face mask and all that. So, how it came to be I wouldn’t know but one thing I know was that when I got prepared to go to work on 22nd May, I feel as if I had some goose pimples on me, I told my SA, ‘let’s go straight to Octovia Pharmacy, that I was feeling as if there was pneumonia in my body. I have been dreaming even when sitting down. We went there, picked some drugs and I started taking the drugs.  “The first three days, there was no response and I was instead getting so weak. It was then that I told my wife that I needed to get to clinic to take some infusion and I went there.  When I took the sixth drip, I was not getting better and I called my doctor  in Minna who has been managing my family for the past 16 years. I told him my situation and he told the doctor who was attending to me to remove the drip and refer me to another place that it was beyond what he can handle…   “My wife is positive because we are very close. Then my second son who will always want to remove my shoes, remove my shirts; he is in 400 level in the university and he also tested positive. But all my other three children and my SA all tested negative.”  Dr. Sophia Osuwa, the Team Leader of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) rapid response team to Ebonyi State who witnessed the discharge of the 15, said the state was very meticulous and proactive in fighting the pandemic.