Chief Donatus Aja is a former governorship candidate in the old Abia State and later served as Commissioner for Border Peace and Conflict Resolution as well as Commissioner for Environment in Ebonyi State. In this interview with UCHENNA INYA, he speaks on the recent rating of Ebonyi as one the poorest states in Nigeria by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), and communal crisis in some parts of the state   Ebonyi was recently rated as the fourth poorest state in Nigeria by National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). What is your take on the rating? We have a bunch of lazy fellows at the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), who sit in their offices and hide behind keyboards to dish out unrealistic figures. You need to visit Ebonyi for a firsthand assessment of the giant strides of Governor Dave Umahi. He has so developed Ebonyi State that people hardly recognise the state for what it was years ago. The workaholic governor has touched all aspects of the economy: agriculture, education, health, you name it. Nevertheless, even if NBS rates us the poorest state in Nigeria, it wouldn’t change anything because people in the state, who see the reality on ground, believe in the leadership of Governor Umahi and his plans for the people. I sincerely hope he is not discouraged by critics, cynics and those who never see anything good in any government. How can you describe Umahi’s style on the fight against Coronavirus pandemic in Ebonyi State? I am pleased with the way the governor is handling the whole COVID- 19 issue in Ebonyi. Without the stringent measures he has put in place, Ebonyi would have overtaken Lagos, Kano, FCT, Ogun and other places in terms of highest recorded cases. At the moment, all the confirmed cases in Ebonyi are people from outside, who sneaked and still sneaking into Ebonyi from different states. No Ebonyi resident has tested positive, but people keep importing the virus. Also, I pity those who think COVID-19 is not real. It is as a result of ignorance. If not ignorance and the determination to stigmatise people, why must people demand for pictures, videos and even addresses of patients before they can believe the existence of COVID-19 in Afikpo, Ebonyi and other parts of Nigeria? Ironically, the same people have no difficulty in believing the existence of COVID-19 outside Nigeria. Nevertheless, there is no vaccine yet, so it is better for people to protect themselves against infection by obeying the directives of government and health authorities, because prevention is bet-ter than cure. Everything happening at the isolation centres is just trial by error. Some recover while others die. For instance, the former Chief of Staff to President Buhari, Abba Kyari, died of COVID-19 complications. Is it that he lacked money to treat himself ? That’s the question those doubting the existence of COVID- 19 should ask themselves. It is better to suffer and stay alive than to complain of hunger and die of COVID-19 while disobeying government directives. Whatever you can’t eat today can be eaten tomorrow. So, Governor Umahi is doing his best to safeguard Ebonyians and I am not ashamed to admit that I am really pleased with him. Because of the situation of the country, COVID-19 has not allowed the state to conduct LG elections, so I am happy with the decision of the governor to set up caretaker committees. Caretaker committee is normal as it is just for the time being and elections will be conducted later. It will be disastrous to conduct elections now, especially with the social distancing stipulations by the government and health officials. You were recently accused of having a hand in the death of a member of your community. How would you react to that? Some jobless people are doing what they can to pull prominent people like me down, so that we can be at the same level. In fact, I read a publication by one Ekuma Charles and was wondering who he was, since many people in other parts of Ebonyi State answer Ekuma too. However, upon investigation, I discovered that the said Ekuma is also from my village in Amankwo. He is the son of the late Igboukwu of Nkpoghoro, whom I personally sponsored his enthronement as village chief, though many people from the other parts of Nkpogoro did not support his emergence as chief. He was my uncle even at death. His son, Ekuma, is almost the same age with my first child. Can you clarify the true situation and ownership of the structure containing lockup shops destroyed in Amankwo, which was attributed to you? Some people don’t know how the lockup shops came to be. I don’t know why anything bad is attributed to me. The said lockup shops and the land it was erected on belong to Amankwo community, not Zentus. In fact, the land was hitherto a forest and was even prohibited for women. However, three years ago, Amankwo people decided to develop the place and erect structures on it, especially as lands are becoming scarce in Afikpo today. In the process of developing the place, they had a problem with their neighbour, Omaka Oko. The elders took it up and went to the police and court for settlement. Wherever they went, the matter was decided in favour of Amankwo people. Even before that, one Titus Nwachi Obila, had built his house through Agbor uzu iyi- Amaobolobo road, with his house facing the main road and not through the backyard, where he is now claiming to be the entrance to his house. Surprisingly, after clearing the forest and developing the land, Obila felt the place was very close to his house. He started using the place as road to his backyard. So, when the people decided to build the lockup stores, he claimed that they were blocking the road to his house. The people questioned his claims and trouble started. Obila then used his wife, who was vice chairman of the local government, who connived with those at the council and security agencies to come and demolish the lockup stores. Before then, he had taken our people to the magistrate court and then the high court. The matter is still in court as we speak. In fact, Obila committed contempt of court by demolishing the structure, when the matter is still in court, so I will be annoyed if government allows the matter to go just like that. You cannot defy the orders of a court of competent jurisdiction without consequences, except if our lawyers want to tell us that the judiciary is no longer the last hope of the common man. Obila didn’t wait for the court to give judgment. Is it true that Amankwo community is divided into two factions and that you are the leader of one of the factions? To me, every Amankwo man or woman is my person and friend. I am not part of any faction. If Amankwo calls a meeting, I always attend. I always abide by whatever decision taken by the community and I am not the leader of the community or any faction. If Ifeanyi Obila is parading himself as leader of any faction, it is his business. I am not contesting anything with him. Even the guy that lost his life recently in the community, Azubuike Inya, was closer to me than Ifeanyi Obila. Therefore, Azubuike’s death is more painful to me because we were very close. Even when I was Commissioner for Environment, I gave Azubuike a job, where he was earning huge amount of money from government every month. He was one of the boys I gave jobs to earn a living. My assistance to people cuts across board, so Azubuike was closer to me than even Ifeanyi Obila, but that does not mean I am the leader of any faction. Can you give details on the death of Azubuike, especially as you are being accused of being the mastermind of his death? The truth is that I was not at home and so cannot tell the beginning of the crisis that led to Azubuike’s death, apart from what I heard from witnesses, just like other people. There is no way I could have directed anyone to kill Azubuike or any other human being. Was he a goat or an animal I can kill to eat the flesh? Was he not a human being created like everyone else? Which problem did I have with Azubuike that would make people believe I have a hand in his death? Has the police intervened on the matter, especially now that it is said you are on the run and that your life is in danger? Yes, thankfully, the police are aware of the situation now. They have intervened and arrested suspects and have even transferred the case to Abakaliki, while investigation is ongoing. However, while the police are investigating the matter, I am of the view that Amankwo people should proffer a solution; in order to nip the crisis in the bud and avert future occurrence. The way Ifeanyi Obila is going, he is behaving as if he has nothing at stake in the village; hence his setting the community on fire. Even if he has nothing at stake, can’t he leave people alone to live in peace? Anybody who doesn’t have value for human beings doesn’t value himself too. We are not known for using machete to fight in Afikpo. So, the knife fight and death of Azubuike is a bad omen and we should pray it doesn’t happen again. What do you think should be done for peace to reign in Amankwo? For peace to return, parties must come together and seek for peace. Our matter is still within Amankwo, so there is no need for external bodies to come in. It is not about staying in Abuja, Lagos and different parts of the country to give orders to loyalists: we must come back home to sit and find a solution. Ordinarily, the guy that lost his life, Azubuike, was not even supposed to be at home as he was busy with his timber business until he was invited home by Obila to come and die such a shameful death. Therefore, people should swallow their ego, put their community first and look for solutions to conflicts. What sacrifice have you made to ensure peace returns to your land? Must you continue to claim your right and destroy your community? Have you put your ego aside for the common good? There is no problem that would not be solved if we put our egos aside to come to the roundtable. The crisis in Amankwo is not even a quarter or anywhere near what I have solved in the entire Ebonyi state as Commissioner for Border Peace and Conflict Resolution in the last dispensation.  