Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing into law an Executive Order to grant financial autonomy to the Legislature and Judiciary across the 36 states of the federation. The State Assembly also applauded its Speaker and Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, for his efforts in leading the implementation Committee of Speakers for the noble achievement in the path of Legislature in the Country. The motion was moved on the floor of the House, by the Deputy Majority Leader, Hon Noheem Adams, noting that the effort of the Federal Government is to strengthen democracy through the implementation of financial autonomy for state legislature and judiciary. While allaying the fears of the state governors that the autonomy is to fortify the principle of separation of powers and ensure true independence of the three arms of government in the Federation, Adams spoke on the notable achievements of Obasa. “You have made history and your name is been invoked in today’s democracy in all the states of the federation for your laudable achievements and in the move towards the implementation of financial autonomy for the legislature and judiciary,” he said. Other members of the Lagos State House of Assembly also voiced support for the Speaker and other parties involved in the passage of the Executive Order. In his contribution, a member of the State Assembly, representing Kosofe II Constituency, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, stressed that the financial autonomy has ensured that the legislative arm of government is equipped with the wherewithal to achieve their oversight functions. In his view, Hon. Victor Akande, representing Ojo Constituency I acknowledged the effort of the Speaker and all others who stood their grounds to ensure that the financial autonomy came to limelight. A member of the House representing Ifako-Ijaiye Constituency II, Hon. Rasheed Makinde, emphasised that the autonomy shows democracy is coming of age and it recognizes the Legislature and Judiciary as well. “The fact that we have been given the autonomy does not mean we want to engage in power tussle with the executive, but share financial independence in line with tents of democracy,” he said. Hon. Rotimi Olowo representing Somolu Constituency I noted that over the years, the public perception towards government has mostly encompassed the executive without giving cognisance to the judiciary and legislature despite being the representatives of the people. However, he believed that the autonomy has put the other arms of government on the map. “Thank you Mr. Speaker for your doggedness and resolve at ensuring that this happens. We cannot do that without also thanking Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for endorsing you. Asiwaju has spotted out someone who has the resolve to push matters and the governors should not see this as a form of opposition or diminishing of power but a move to ensure that the three arms of government work together independently and interdependently without any sentiment or rancor,” he reiterated.  