Mirian Obioma Okoro attended Madonna University, Okija in Anambra State where she obtained her LL.B. She was called to Bar in 2015. Okoro shares her foray into the law profession with
JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background   She is from Ebonyi State. Mirian Obioma Okoro attended Madonna University Okija in Anambra State where she obtained her LL.B in 2014. Okoro was called to the Bar in 2015 after a successful Bar exams at the Nigerian Law school, Yenagoa.   She said: “Currently, I am the National Coordinator of the Youth Alliance for Good Governance (YAGG) as well as the Chairman/Founder of a non-governmental organization (NGO), Star Advocacy for African Women and Children  (SAFAWAC).   “Star Advocacy for African Women and Children (SAFAWAC) is a proactive non-governmental organization duly registered under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria mainly focus on Advocacy for Women/Children, fight against abuse or violence of Women/Children and promotion of woman/child development throughout Nigeria and Africa.  “Our Organization’s mission is to eradicate cases of violence and abuse against Children and women in African communities to a large extent while promoting other development initiatives aimed at ensuring a conducive environment for the women and children across Africa.   Child advocacy and juvenile justice system   I developed an interest in juvenile justice system in Nigeria because I have seen lots of juvenile in adult facilities which is an eyesore. A few of them in such facilities did not commit any crime while a good number of them are first time offenders.   Apparently, keeping them in adult prisons will only make them more hardened to commit worse crimes when they are released.   According to UNICEF, about 73% of these incarcerated minors are first time offenders and they must be properly institutionalised and rehabilitated prevent future crimes.   Importantly, I believe in the saying “catch them young. There are lots of potential in the children of today and a poor juvenile justice system will only kill those potential and increase the number of criminals in our country whereas adequate rehabilitation and institutionalisation will mould them into better leaders and citizens.  Law and detention of children   The issue of incarceration of children is one area that the legislature and the judiciary must look into. There are definitely laws that regulate juvenile justice system in Nigeria but there are still lots of unanswered questions in respect of those laws.   This is because many people believe the laws can be amended to adequately protect the rights of minors. On the other hand, people also believe that the existing laws are not properly implemented or strictly adhered to.   However, let’s take a look at these existing laws on the incarceration of children.   Section 221(1) of the Child Rights Act provides that no child shall be ordered to be imprisoned, subjected to corporal punishment or subjected to death penalty.   Furthermore, Section 222 (1) states that “notwithstanding anything in this Act to the contrary, where a child is found to have attempted to commit treason, murder, robbery or manslaughter, or wounded another person with intent to do grievous harm, the court may order the child to be detained for such period as may be specified in the order.”   Also “where an order is made under subsection (1) of this section, the child shall, during that period notwithstanding anything in the other provisions of this Act, be liable to be detained in such place and on such conditions as the Court may direct, and the child whilst so detained shall be deemed to be in legal custody.”   There is no doubt that incarcerated children have not been accounted for in Nigeria for several years. This is obviously a result of recklessness and non-challant on the part of both the staff of the Nigerian Prisons and the leaders who have refused to set the right pace.   It is, however, risky and terrible to let these minors go after detaining them in the same facilities with the adults, meaning that the detained children are exposed to hardened adult criminals, denied proper institutional care & reformatory measures and are likely to commit worse crimes in feature.   The worst of all is that the actual numbers of these released minors are not kept. This will eventually have extremely negative side effects on the entire country if not curtailed in good time.   In other words, provision of Section 222 simply made it legal to detain a child who is found guilty of grievous offences but did not specify the kind of facility that the child will be detained. The provisions of this section has often justified the incarceration of Children in the adult facility which is wrong because same has given rise to the most hardened criminals in Nigeria.  The way forward is to build correctional facilities for underage prisoners and of course Juvenile prisons.   This will enhance proper record of incarcerated juveniles and also ensure that they are properly rehabilitated before their release. Court and cases of detained children   I have not particularly handled any case of a child prisoner since the years of my law practice. However, I have witnessed several of such cases in court. In fact there was a certain case that involved about four minors who were accused of rape and locked up in adult prisons for so many months with the alleged victim refusing to show up in court throughout.   It was subsequently suspected that the alleged victim acted maliciously. Whatever the case is, the fact remains that these 4 minors were made to stay in adult facilities with hardened criminals for a long period of time. There are many other cases of child prisoners that I’ve witnessed as well.   