  O ften times, I tried as much as possible to wear a smileful face to encouragingly cushion the pandemic effect of a pandemic economy in a pandemic country that has become pandemically nepotistic by a president that has shown incompetence at managing the challenges facing Nigeria. I truly feel for my dear country men and women. I feel for a citizenry that is utterly and pandemically disillusioned in a country with limited choices, narrow opportunities and policy summersaults; a country that is manifestly living in self-denial, with broken hearts, disharmony and disconnections.   Reading Col. Dangiwa Umar’s (retd) open letter to Mr. President about the fate of a kingdom riddled with favouritism for one tribe against the others, further dampened my hope of seeing a nation on the path of recovery. Typical of Col. Umar, he didn’t spare the president in his choice of words, so elegant, yet so purgent, in explaining away the subject matter of nepotism that has driven a wedge between the president, the North and the rest of the country. Going by the underpinning message of that open letter, it would suffice to refer to Mr. President as the President of the Federal Republic of the North. The president’s nepotism contradicts his earlier declared assurance of belonging to no one and belonging to all. It is obvious, instructively so, that President Buhari belongs to the North.   I had raised some queries last week when I expressed my fears for a country that is permanently driving on the unhealthy lane of nepotism. I had complained about a future that is forlorn, assuredly unsure, dominated by lack of national unity, absence of consensus and cohesion, and a dearth of national conversation that should robustly exploit all the centripetal and centrifugal forces to strike a national consciousness. The failure of leadership, and the pervading mutual suspicion that exists across the nation, have their telling impact on national development.  In Nigeria of the 21st century, we cannot boast of world class health institutions, we cannot boast of vibrant and technologically-driven public citadel of learning. We cannot beat our chest about efficient power supply, our human capital development is appalling, our infrastructure mimics antiquated and abandoned stone age technology. We have become a dumping ground for those technologies. Take a trip to the train stations and see for yourself what the situation looks like. When countries are already using electric-driven trains, we are beating our chest for building push-pull trains with their noise pollution. Visit the slums in our urban centres, you are most probably going to think we are in war situation with shanties and makeshifts dotting the whole landscape. Where are the houses, where are the shelters?   President Buhari perhaps may genuinely have the love of the country at heart, but he has not displayed such love by his conduct in the last five years. He may love to heal the wounds and broken hearts in the country, but he hasn’t picked up the gauntlet to show such leadership. He may want to take away 100 million Nigerians out of poverty, such ambitious declaration, but his interventions amount to mere tokenism. Imagine the latest intention to recruit 774,000 unskilled labourers for an initial three months, with a bogus N54 billion to be expended; such adhoc economic interventionistic policy is prone to corruption. As I listened to the Minister of State for Labour, Mr. Festus Keyamo, explained the modus operandi of this initiative on a TV programme, I shook my head in awe. This is not only a primitive approach to confronting the gloom economic situation we find ourselves, it is a programme that is unsustainable and cannot endure the test of time. A serious government with a presence of mind can generate 500 entrepreneurs with N54 billion if judiciously applied. Some of such entrepreneurs can recruit at least 20 employees for a start if they are encouraged to build cottage industries in specific areas of need.   For example, in Ghana, there are small industries that make use of disposed polythene bags, sachet water nylons and the like and convert same to some other finished products for the Ghanaian economy. This way, these disposed polythene bags that usually cause huge threat to the environment are taken off drains and gutters for the companies that need them.   Others make use of materials from refuse dumps to produce fertilizers to grow the agricultural sector. The refuse are re-processed to suit their needs. There are other cottage industries that make use of disposed plastic to produce other finished products for the market. There is National Directorate of Employment (NDE) which is vested with training skilled manpower in specific areas of the economy. When you interact with some of their graduates, what they lack is often times, take-off grants to put into practice what they have learnt. What about if government decided to open up our textile industries once again instead of importing fabrics from Ghana and other countries? Or better still, open up a cluster of tailoring outfits in communities and towns across the countries for those who have learned the trade but unable to set up. What about the furniture business? A N10 billion investment in the furniture business in Benin City, for example, will open up the entire furniture value chain to a booming, world class money spinner within years. Instead of importing furniture of whatever shape and design, this huge market will fill the gap. This way, government will facilitate financial inclusion by capturing more people into the tax net. Investing in some of these areas will create gainful employments with a multiplier effect on the national economy. I will rather opt for such than expending N54 billion on adhoc employment with no definable job specification. Almost everything including toothpick is imported into Nigeria.   In my little community of Okpella, there are no federal assets or facilities. The only road that cuts through the community is wearing visible signs of old age. The community roads have become eyesore. The drains have since been over-run by erosion and other agents of denudation. If you recruit any of those adhoc staff for three months, what work would you rather allocate to them on a daily basis in Okpella? Again, a lot of these communities are located far from banks. How would they easily access the banks to open accounts and obtain Bank Verification Number (BVN)? Okpella can only boast of a Community Bank, after the only bank, United Bank for Africa (UBA) closed business over incessant robbery operations and break-in some years ago. This is the fate of many other communities in local governments across the country. What this initiative is suggesting is that, in three months, N54 billion would have gone down the drains by allocating N60,000 to each of the 774,000 so-called adhoc labourers. Hmm, “Keyamo don hammer”! This initiative will go the way of other adhoc arrangements peculiar with this government like the conditional cash transfer, whose momentum ebbed after the 2019 elections.   The social welfare programme is equally yoked in corruption and malfeasance. Ditto for the school feeding programme, that has become a drain pipe. Imagine the “ingenuity” of feeding students at home under the lockdown, many students that cannot boast of a home or an address, yet being said to be fed at this pandemic period. Such ingenuity!   Meanwhile, most of our schools infrastructure are wearing stone age looks, begging for government intervention. The almajirai schools have become abandoned, while some have been converted to other use. While some of the schools have been overgrown with grasses, the fact that this government has neglected this huge resource is a serious cause for concern. As a country burdened by huge debts, what have we done to address holistically the almajirai issue? What has President Buhari done to address this huge population that are roaming the streets? A pandemic Nigeria is one that will continue for a long time if deliberate actions are not taken. By the time President Buhari exits from office, he will look outside his window, to see a deluge of almajirai clutching plates in their hands, noisily asking for alms and food. That way, he will realise how dangerous it will be to sleep peacefully in retirement with those categories of Nigerians lurking around his neighbourhood. It might be too late then, but it is not too late now. Nepotism will not solve the problem. Clannishness will not heal the wounds. Religious bigotry will not create new colony. Favouritism will not be a therapy. Timely response, now, now, is the way to go.   