‘Autonomy’ll guarantee judiciary’s independence’   Lawyers at the weekend hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for signing an Executive Order aimed at ceding financial autonomy to States’ Legislature and the Judiciary. This, they believe would free the two arms of government from the grip of state governors. AKEEM NAFIU reports    L awyers were unanimous President Muhammadu Buhari deserved an applause following the long overdue financial autonomy he granted to States’ legislature and the judiciary.  They said the President’s endorsement of an Executive Order in pursuant of attaining financial independence for the two arms of government was a step in the right direction.  Before the signing of the Bill which granted financial autonomy to states judiciary and the Houses of Assembly on 8th June, 2018 by President Buhari, governors had been observing Section 121(3) of the Constitution which clearly spelt out how funds due to the third arm of government should be disbursed in clear breach of true objective of the Constitution.   Section 121(3) of the Constitution says “any amount standing to the credit of the judiciary in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the State shall be paid directly to the heads of the court concerned.”   However, many state governors had disregarded the constitutional provision  which often times led to serious disputes with executives of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) who in turn called out their members to shun work.   National Assembly’s intervention   The 7th Assembly had jointly passed the fourth alteration Bill to further amend the 1999 Constitution, but former President Goodluck Jonathan withheld assent even after billions had been committed to the amendment exerise.However, in its determination to fashion out an acceptable legislation, the 8th Assembly proceeded with the amendment to the Constitution.  The two chambers considered the amendment to 33 Sections of the Constitution based on reports of ad-hoc committees on Constitution review.  While the Senate approved 29 recommendations, the House of Representatives approved only 24.  Notable among the Bills is the one which granted financial autonomy to States Judiciary and the Houses of Assembly.  Executive’s intervention   The Bill granting financial autonomy to States Judiciary and the Houses of Assembly subsequently became law on 8th June, 2019 when President Muhammadu Buhari assented to it.   Briefing State House journalists on the development, a Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly matters, Senator Ita Enang, said with the coming on board of the law, states judiciary were expected to have direct access to their funds and not through state governors again.  Enang said: “I just want to inform you that His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari today assented to the Constitution Fourth Alteration Bill which grants financial authonomy and independence to the Houses of Assembly of the respective states and to the Judiciary of the respective states.   “Therefore upon this signature, the amounts standing to the credit of the judiciary are now to be paid directly to the judiciary of those states, no more through the governors and no more from the governors and then the amounts standing to the credit of the Houses of Assembly of the respective states are now to be paid directly to the Houses of Assembly of that state for the benefit of the legislators and the management of the States Houses of Assembly. This grants full autonomy now to the judiciary at the state level and the Houses of Assembly at the state level.”   Implementation Committee   About 9 months after signing the Bill granting financial autonomy to States Judiciary and the Houses of Assembly into law, President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated a Committee to fashion out strategies and modalities for implementing the law in line with the dictates of Section 121 (3) of the Constitution.  After about 3 months of carrying out its assignment, the Committee which was chaired by Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) submitted its report to the president.   Highlight of their recommendations was the need for President Buhari to sign an Executive Order for the immediate take off the implementation of the autonomy for states legislature and the judiciary.   President Buhari also assured the nation of his determination to take appropriate action on the Committee’s recommendations.  A statement by the President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, quoted President Buhari as saying effort to ensure autonomy for state legislatures and the judiciary will further strengthen democracy and deepen inclusiveness of citizens by guaranteeing fairness for ordinary Nigerians.   “I went through a terrible time getting here for the three times I contested elections. That’s why I want to stabilise the system so that others will not pass through the    same experience.    “Both young and ordinary Nigerians depend on leadership to ensure justice is always done. So we must ensure that trust is not compromised. This administration will take the report seriously,” the President said.   Buhari’s Executive Order In keeping with his promise to take appropriate action on Malami’s Committee’s recommendation, President Muhammadu Buhari on 22nd May, 2020 signed an Executive Order to give effect to full financial autonomy for states legislature and the judiciary.   The Order is branded “Executive Order No. 10 of 2020 for the implementation of Financial Autonomy of State Legislature and State Judiciary.”   A statement issued by an aide to Malami, Dr. Umar Gwandu, indicated that the new Order would further make the two arms more independent and accountable in line with the tenets of democracy.  It reads: “The President signed the Executive Order number 10 into law based on the power vested in him as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under Section 5 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as Amended), which extends to the execution and maintenance of the Constitution, laws made by the National Assembly (including but not limited to Section 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution (as Amended), which guarantee financial autonomy of the State Legislature and State Judiciary.    “The Order provides that the Accountant-General of the Federation shall by this Order and such any other Orders, Regulations or Guidelines as may be issued by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, authorise the deduction from source in the course of Federation Accounts Allocation from the money allocated to any State of the Federation that fails to release allocation meant for the State Legislature and State Judiciary in line with the financial autonomy guaranteed by Section 121(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as Amended).”   Lawyers speak   However, lawyers in their tens thumbed-up the Federal Government’s effort at ensuring that states judiciary and the Houses of Assembly would enjoy their financial autonomy as guaranteed by the Constitution.   The lawyers, while speaking with New Telegraph Law at the weekend, however, demanded an expansion of the scope to ensure that funds allocated to states judiciary were judiciously spent.  For instance, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Seyi Sowemimo, lauded the President’s signing of the Executive Order saying it will free the judiciary from the governors’ grip.  He said: “The signing of the Executive Order is a good development. It will make judicial officers less vulnerable to pressure from the executive branch of government”   Another Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Yemi Candide-Johnson, also expressed his joy at government’s efforts. He however called for a thorough scrutiny of how judiciary funds were spent by states judiciary.   “Government’s effort at guaranteeing financial autonomy for States’ Judiciary and Houses of Assembly is quite important and commendable.   “But more important is to make judicial budgets transparent and accountable. Today they are opaque and discretionary in a potentially dangerous manner,” the silk said.  Dr. Biodun Layonu, believed the Executive Order as contained in the Committee’s recommendations will ensure states compliance with constitutional provisions.   He said: “The Executive Order is simply to facilitate compliance with constitutional provisions. It is a good development. It will further ensure the independence of the judiciary”.   A former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Monday Ubani, also expressed joy at the signing of the Executive Order by the president saying it will have positive effect of the independence of the two arms of government.  “At least we will begin to have judiciary that will not be going to the governors with cap in hands begging for allocations that constitutionally belong to them. The summary is that it will have positive effect to their independence.    “The government is further urged to insist that other two arms of the government must respect and obey the judgements and rulings of the judiciary to complete the process of independence”, he said.   To Mr. Kunle Adegoke, the issuance of the Executive Order is a necessity.  He said: “I believe what the president has done is in order. An Executive Order is just a regulation issued by the president or some administrative authority for the purpose of interpreting, implementing or giving administrative effect to a provision of the constitution or a treaty. “It has been considered to be an effective instrument for good governance. The issue of legislative and judicial autonomy is a necessity as no arm of government should have an over-bearing influence on the constitutional capacities of other arms of government if separation of powers would be meaningful.  “It is not so much the need to have separation of powers as this is not in any way an end in itself but to ensure the prevalence of rule of law. Rule of law itself is not guaranteed where the judiciary is not independent as this is a cornerstone for ensuring rule of law.   “That is why Section 121(3) of the Constitution was altered by the Fourth Alteration Act No. 7 of 2017 which included the House of Assembly of a State in the financial autonomy. The original Section 121 of the Constitution only covers the judiciary alone. What the President has promulgated by the Executive Order is just an order to give effect to the Fourth Alteration Act, No. 7 of 2017.   “The judiciary has always been going cap in hand to the executive to beg for allocations and financial support. This has made many governors the determiners of what the judiciary does and does not do. You see a governor who considers himself a potentate dishing out orders to the judiciary or by subtly influencing the outcome of judicial determination by threat of financial incapacitation.    A Chief Judge at the last NBA Conference in Lagos lamented the financial situation of the judiciary in her state and attributed their incapacitation to financial control by the executive. The situation under which our courts operate cannot be regarded as part of the modern judicial system in which courts of other land operate.    “I believe the Executive Order 10 which seeks to ensure financial autonomy for the legislature and the judiciary will promote independence of the judiciary and assist in our campaign for the prevalence of rule of law. A Federal High Court has once pronounced in favour of financial autonomy for the judiciary which the government is yet to fully comply with. I believe the promulgation of this Order will hasten compliance with the decision of the court”.  A rights activist, Mr. Kabir Akingbolu, believed the issuance of the Executive Order will enhance the quality of work of the legislature and the judiciary across states.   “Implementation of the spirit and intendment of the Executive Order will enhance the quality of the work of our Judiciary.  Although the constitution recognized three major arms of government, namely: the Executive, the Judiciary and the Legislature, in practice, the Executive, headed by the governor or the president as the case may be, controls the judiciary and the legislature in a way as if they are mere appendages to the executive.   “This, in practical terms, is a negation of the concept of independence of judiciary which is key to its role as an unbias umpire. By the way government is run in Nigeria today, the judiciary is too subservient to the executive, especially in terms of fiscal needs because each time the judiciary needs to do anything, it must go cap in hand begging for money to run its affairs.   “This will make the judiciary unnecessarily subservient to the powers that be and in a way subject its proficiency and tendency of being unbiased to serious threat perpetually. The fiscal control of the judiciary is not congenial with the spirit of constitutionalism.  “That being the case, the Executive Order will take away all the unsavoury controls hitherto exercised by the executive over the judiciary. The judiciary can now work without any fear or favour and heaven will not fall.   “This will usher in a new era of hope and rejuvenation marked with deep sense of commitment and dedication to duty in an environment devoid of harrassment, intimidation and tactical suppression. This will put paid to the tactical carrot dangling by the executive to influence and control the almighty judiciary”, he said.  A Lagos-based lawyer, Mr. Chris Ekemezie, opined that financially independent state judiciary will rekindle the courage of the courts to dispense justice.   He said: “In a federal system, though no perfect federal system exist anywhere in the world, it is desirable that all organs of government remain independent but coordinate. For a true federalism, judiciary must be independent of all other arms of government.  “The call for independence of State Judiciary is a welcome development. There is need for states judiciary to be financially independent.   “There is also need for appellate courts to exist in the states. It will not only decongest too many cases at the Federal Appeal Court but will also enhance dispensation of justice. A financially independent state judiciary will rekindle the courage of the courts to dispense justice.”   