Conservationists and other built environment professionals, who  expressed mixed reactions over plans by the Lagos State government to create  new  islands to curb land scarcity for development in the metropolis, are calling for  Environmental and Social Impacts Assessment (ESIA) study  of the project. Dayo Ayeyemi reports    A mid  plans to create new islands to make land available for development along Lagos water fronts, environmental and urban planning experts are calling for caution.   They are also compelling government to embark on  Environmental and Social  Impact Assessment (ESIA ) study of the project.  According to some of them, the enormity of  dredging and land  reclamation activities for residential and infrastructure development along the shorelines will distort ecosystem and waterways, thereby compounding  problem of flood in the state.   The state government, through its Commissioner for Waterfront Infrastructure Development, Mr. Ahmed Kabiru Abdullahi, disclosed at the weekend that the state was planning  to create new  islands to make land available for development.   He added  that work had begun on the reclamation of 100 hectares of land proposed for mixed-use development named “Ostia Islands,” beside Orange Island in Eti-Osa Local Government Area.   Existing man-made islands in Lagos include  the 150-hectare Orange Island,  Diamond Island, 10,000 residential units Gracefield project, 9-square kilometre Eko Atlantic City, 200-hectares Imperial International Business  City, Ilubinrin , 45- hectare Apple Island and Landmark Island, among others  Experts’views While some built environment experts supported the initiative, others kicked against the  creation of new islands on the waterfronts.   Speaking on the initiative, Professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Lagos,  Leke Oduwaye, applauded the initiative  on the ground that proper Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) would be  carried out and execution of the project comply with the recommendations in the EIA.  He said:  “The funding model is usually with little or no financial contribution from government.  “It is usually based on PPP model with the private sector providing the fund. From financial point of view, it is a revenue source for government.”   However, Oduwaye urged  government to consolidate the creation of the new islands with regeneration.  According to him,  private sector participants interested in new islands should also combine it with regeneration of some of the slum areas.  Another professor  in the Department of Estate Management, University of Lagos, Olugbenga Nubi, is not in support of the new islands in the face of slums in the metropolis.   According to him, there are hundreds of slums where millions of Lagosians are currently residing that require massive urban regeneration.   He said: “We must get real. Political leaders were voted in to solve the problems people are facing and give them better choices that will make life worth living.”  Project Manager, Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), Mr. Adedamola Ogunsesan, said creation of new  islands had more disadvantages than merits.   To him, by the time lands are reclaimed, it’s assumed that there would be more lands for development, but the mistake is that when reclamation takes place, waters are displaced to other locations.   This,  he said,  would  worsen flooding problem in Lagos metropolis  since displaced water must go elsewhere.   He also bemoaned government’s  tendencies of abandoning EIAs when such projects are being carried out.    If the project must be done at all,  he advised that it should be carried out  in a sustainable manner, stressing  that government must be transparent about the process.    “Government should weigh the cost of creating the new islands against the wet lands it wants to reclaim.  How many fishes,  crabs and acquantic lives are going to be affected,” he said.   “There is need to look at the architectural design of building that allows wet land utilisation,” he said.   According to him, there should be synergy between the ministries of environment and urban development.   Managing Director of MOA and Associates, Mr Moses Ogunleye, corroborated professor Nubi,  saying there should be heavy efforts on urban regeneration as  it will affect more lives.   However, he stated that creating new islands might be the way to go in view of the fact that the state has a small land area with the various development options.  He pointed out that there were  many reclaimations across cities of the world, saying what is germane is the process of doing them, which must follow the best practice.  According to him, from the planning of  varoius islands to the conduct of the Environmental and Social  Impact Assessment (ESIA ) study and detailed design of the infrastructure and post ESIA, the process must be thorough.  Last line   If it’s compulsory for government to create new  islands, it should be done in a sustainable manner by following best standards.  