 The Coca-Cola Company has announced it is to pause all its advertising on social media for at least a month.
The brand said on Friday it is doing this in solidarity with the ‘Stop Hate For Profit’ campaign, which encourages businesses to stop advertising on Facebook due to the claimed promotion of ‘hate, bigotry, racism, antisemitism and violence’ on its platform. It has joined a string of other companies which have done the same.
CEO James Quincey said the global advertising boycott will last for at least 30 days from July 1.
He said in a statement on the Coca-Cola website: ‘There is no place for racism in the world and there is no place for racism on social media.
‘The Coca-Cola Company will pause paid advertising on all social media platforms globally for at least 30 days. ‘We will take this time to reassess our advertising policies to determine whether revisions are needed. We also expect greater accountability and transparency from our social media partners.’
It appears that Coca-Cola is going one step further than the campaign though, and is not just boycotting Facebook and Instagram but also Twitter, YouTube and other platforms. Unilever and Verizon both announced yesterday they would also be joining the campaign.
It comes after Facebook announced a number of policy changes to address its recent criticism, which includes placing restrictions on hateful content in ads such as encouraging racial divisions or expressing contempt for immigrants.
In response to Unilever’s announcement, a Facebook spokesperson told NBC News yesterday: ‘We invest billions of dollars each year to keep our community safe and continuously work with outside experts to review and update our policies.
‘We know we have more work to do, and we’ll continue to work with civil rights groups, GARM, and other experts to develop even more tools, technology and policies to continue this fight.’
Facebook has not yet commented on Coca-Cola’s announcement.
The ‘Stop Hate For Profit’ campaign says: ‘Today, we are asking all businesses to stand in solidarity with our most deeply held American values of freedom, equality and justice and not advertise on Facebook’s services in July.
‘Let’s send Facebook a powerful message: Your profits will never be worth promoting hate, bigotry, racism, antisemitism and violence.’ 