Troops of the joint military Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), yesterday reportedly engaged suspected armed militant herdsmen in a fierce gun battle at Gyungwu Amua Village in Guma Local Government Area of Benue State leaving two people dead.
One person was said to have been badly injured while one AK-47 with 20 rounds of ammunition was recovered.
This is coming barely two days after the same military forces reportedly arrested one local militia leader, popularly known as ‘Alhaji Audu’ from Olegeje community in Agatu Local Government Area of the state and recovered one Ak-47 rifle and 60 rounds of ammunition from him during a communal strife in Agatu.
New Telegraph learnt from one of the locals, who pleaded anonymity, that the armed herdsmen made incursion into the village from neighbouring Nasarawa State to launch an attack on the community when the troops were informed and decided to lay an ambush for the marauders.
Another source, who gave his name as Hilejime Abur, said on phone that the armed herdsmen, numbering about seven, were sighted in the village at about 7:30pm planning to attack the village when a distress call was put across to the troops of OPWS.
“Immediately we sighted the armed herdsmen, we quickly alerted the troops who swiftly responded and went towards their direction to lay ambush for them.
“They unfortunately ran into the troops, and without wasting time, the herders opened fire on the troops and the troops responded with superior fire power.
“After heavy exchange of gun fire, the troops dislodged the herdsmen, killing two and injuring one of them.
“l saw their dead bodies because the army brought them back into the village with the AK-47 rifle and 20 rounds of ammunition.
“I want to really commend OPWS  troops in Benue State for the effort they are putting in place to ensure that the security situation in Guma Local Government Area is brought under control. I must say they have done so much for us in Benue,” Abur said.
When contacted, the Force Commander of OPWS, Maj. Gen. Adeyemi Yekini, declined comment on the attack and referred journalists to the Defense Headquarters (DHQ) Information Department.
The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Catherine Sewuese Anene, when contacted, said she was yet to receive any report of the attack from the local government. 