The Senior Pastor of All Nations Church, an arm of Joshua Generation Ministries, Apostle Courage Igene, is a minister of God who is blessed with Apostolic gifts, an author of several books and a minister to the nations of the world. He takes us through his ministerial experience even as he explains the circumstances surrounding the church today, in this interview with journalists. Excerpts….  Could you tell us about your growing up days? Growing up was fine in Benin City, Nigeria. I was grateful to be planted in Assemblies of God Church where I learnt almost everything I know today. I thank God for that. I schooled in Benin and all went well. And I also organised lots of prayer crusades through Concerned Christians Prayer Ministry, a ministry I had then. What were childhood dreams and would you say you achieve them or not? As a child, I wanted to be a Police officer because I was inspired by my uncle who was then an Assistant Inspector General of Police. I later changed my mind to join politics so I can make the much needed changes in my state and nation. I got very involved in political activism. I still have it in my blood till today. I have a passion to see positive changes in the political climate of the nation. We need men of integrity to rise to positions of power and change the current culture of looting and pillaging of national resources. ministry and politics are both strong passions of mine. If I had to do something else fully outside of ministry, it would be going into politics. Have you ever been involved in any vocation outside the ministry and how did you get into ministry of the gospel? I have worked in a few places on the side. Worked at corporate offices as an administrative assistant, warehouses, menial jobs such as plumbing, cleaning, chauffeur, and lots more. I received Christ after listening to a life changing message at my church at Assemblies of God Church, Benin City. Nigeria. I have actually been involved in church from the young age of 12. That’s all I ever known. That’s the only passion that consumed me. Then to begin full time ministry, God spoke to me to raise an end time army for him which is the vision and mission statement of our ministry today and it was confirmed by many pastors and leaders. All Nations Churches is 15 years and we are Godly proud of what God has done. Now the work of God is what I do fully because I can hardly meet up with all the different aspects of the ministry which all require my attention. . What then informed your migration to the USA and how has it impacted on your dreams? Migrating to the U.S really helped me to further my education; it created opportunities for me to get exposed to advanced society and this has helped me gain knowledge on lots of issues. I’m at the center of God’s will for my life today and that’s all that matters. The Difference is clear. One major example are basic amenities are provided uninterrupted but the opposite is the case in Nigeria. How had the church in the USA impacted the political and developmental structure in the US? The church is the reason we currently have President Donald Trump at the White House today. He got 90% of the church vote. But lack of enthusiasm and adequate knowledge of the political world is the reason many believers aren’t in politics. Many believe its not worth going into but with proper education and awareness, things can change, especially, if they have the passion and selfless love for the people. What are your thoughts about persecution of the church worldwide? There has been heavy attacks on churches…because there is a deep hatred by many against the Body of Christ. They rejoice and glory at any ugly news or scandal about the church. It started from Bible days till now. Nothing new. You hardly hear of all the good the church is doing, the bloggers never post it. But let there be one bad report of someone, it will make major headlines because bad news is good business. What can Christians do in the face of intense persecution? I believe the first thing to consider is why are there attacks? The answer is ignorance. People criticize what they don’t understand and what they understand, they destroy. The danger in doing this is putting yourself in direct confrontation against the owner of the church which is the Lord Jesus Christ. Check everyone who fought the church from Bible days till now,  they don’t end well. This is because you are attacking someone’s wife; the church is the Bride of Christ. Not perfect but Jesus is perfecting us in his righteousness.  The wife you married has issues, but you didn’t throw her away. You still love her. How much more Jesus! Some have made it their “calling” to attack the church everyday on social media. Its the cheapest way to get followers online…just attack! In the Bible, When Saul was attacking the church, he believed he was doing the will of God until God knocked him off his high horse of pride and gave him temporary blindness which led to his conversion. We need to pray for the church and for our men and women of God.  Not blast them openly on social media like many Christians do everyday…they enjoy insulting fathers of the faith. Its wrong. If everyone is wrong, you can start your own church and teach us how it should be done. Do you have any regrets about being a pastor? I won’t use the word “regret” but I can say I have been greatly and deeply disappointed in what I have seen and experienced as a pastor. Life has taught me that everything and everyone is not as they first appear. The snake you don’t deal with in Genesis will become a dragon in Revelation. How do you manage critics? It depends on the criticism. There are two kinds of criticisms; constructive and destructive. If someone is giving me a constructive criticism, I will listen and take it. I have leaders and people everywhere who give me ideas on how to do some things differently. I always appreciate them for calling it to my attention and expressing their concerns and suggestions. I have changed many things because someone suggested except its something I heard clearly from God and something I know is in line with God’s word. But destructive criticism sees nothing good in you. Its intent is to destroy you, demean your influence and attack your credibility. Everytime they speak or write, its always an attack. Nothing constructive about it. If you notice, Jesus never spent time with his critics. Destructive criticism is a major form of distraction the enemy uses to derail you on your assignment. Many times, I ignore the destructive critics. It will be foolish of me to respond to every dog that barks, otherwise I won’t get to my destination. What have been your challenges in the ministry? My challenges are trusting the wrong people. Disappointment in those you did the most for, attack you viciously to see you are destroyed at all cost. Not having all the resources needed to accomplish certain projects as much as I desire. Some of which include: building rehabilitation centers for those desperately in need, homes for the elderly, orphans, widows, and much more. Could you let us in on how you relax despite your busy schedule? I stop everything briefly and watch an action movie. And lay down to rest a little. What would you say is your ugliest moment in the ministry? Ugliest moment is so sensitive; it brings back bad and painful memories that I rather leave it in God’s hands. How would you assess the response of church leadership to Covid-19 pandemic? The response is great because its an unseen enemy. The nations have been on Lockdown for some months but recently began to open.  Many of the church leaders shut down their churches and switched to online only. They are beginning to open up again. Prayers have been going up against the evil plague. Is there any spiritual undertone regarding the cause of Covid-19 outbreak? The cause of the virus was from an experiment that went out of control in a Chinese laboratory. Spiritually, It was manipulated by political leaders to achieve an anti Christ agenda. Do you see Donald Trump being reelected as President if the USA? It will depend on the state of the nation by election time. everything is subject to change. People that sing “Hosanna” today can turn around tomorrow to shout “crucify him” so it depends. 