With the UK now in its tenth week of lockdown, many bored Brits have been getting frisky to keep themselves entertained while at home. But a new study has warned that having sex could spread coronavirus, and has advised that couples take preventative steps in the bedroom, reports mirror.co.uk. This includes avoiding kissing, showering before and after sex, and even wearing masks while having sex. In the study, researchers from Harvard University ranked different sexual scenarios, based on how like you are to catch coronavirus during them. Abstinence and masturbation… Senegal has postponed the restart of schools until further notice after several teachers tested positive for the new coronavirus, the education ministry said late on Monday. Schools were scheduled to gradually resume on Tuesday, after weeks of shutdown due to the pandemic. Senegal has recorded 3,739 positive COVID-19 cases since the start of the outbreak, with 43 deaths, reports mirror.co.uk. An education ministry statement said teachers tested positive for coronavirus in Ziguinchor, in the Casamance area, south of the country. It said Senegal’s President Macky Sall decided to “postpone… *Liverpool kneel in support of late American FIFA has urged competition organisers to use “common sense” when considering whether to punish players for protesting against the death of George Floyd during matches. The German FA (DFB) says it is considering sanctions against players after several demonstrated this weekend, reports Sky Sports. The players made the gestures after Floyd, who was black, died in Minneapolis after a white police officer knelt on his neck, despite Floyd warning he could not breathe. FIFA told the Associated Press: “FIFA fully understands the depth of sentiment… Hong Kong’s leader accused the United States on Tuesday of applying “double standards” in its response to violent protests as she warned Washington’s plan to place trade restrictions on the financial hub would “only hurt themselves”. Semi-autonomous Hong Kong has been rocked by months of huge and often violent pro-democracy over the past year, which riot police have stamped out with more than 9,000 arrests, reports France24. Washington has been critical of Hong Kong’s response to the protests with US President Donald Trump last week vowing to end the city’s special trading status… The UK and Canada have opposed Russia’s return to the G7, deepening a rift over US President Donald Trump’s wish for the country to rejoin. Trump said on Saturday he would postpone the G7 summit scheduled to take place this month until September. The president said the G7’s “outdated group of countries” should be expanded to include others, including Russia. On Sunday, Trump told Russian President Vladimir Putin of his plan to invite him to the summit, reports the BBC. The White House said making “progress toward convening… Looters broke into a SoHo Rolex store during rioting and stole $2.4 million worth of watches, police sources said Monday. Video shows throngs of people making their way through the front door of the Greene Street store before fleeing a short time later, reports The New York Post. “The Rolex store is empty,” a police source said. “They stole like $2.4 million in Rolexes.” The store was one of many in the neighborhood in lower Manhattan looted after daytime protests ended. Social media postings show that a Chanel store,… National Guard troops were deployed near the White House Monday evening hours after President Donald Trump said he wanted a military show of force against violent protests gripping the nation. Shortly after, Trump came to the White House Rose Garden to call himself the “law and order” president, saying “domestic terrorism” was to blame for the unrest. “As we speak, I am dispatching thousands and thousands of heavily armed soldiers, military personnel, and law enforcement officers to stop the rioting, looting, vandalism, assaults, and the wanton destruction of property,” he said.… *Death toll rises to 59 in Lagos COVID-19 cases in Nigeria have risen by 416, according to figures released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Monday night. This is the second highest daily toll recorded by NCDC since the index case was confirmed on February 27, 2020. The highest daily toll was confirmed on Saturday, 553 cases. With the latest update, the COVID-19 case toll for Lagos has exceeded 5,000 as the state recorded 192 new cases on Monday with nine deaths. No other state has more… Veteran musician, Majekodunmi Fasheke, popularly known by the stage name, Majek Fashek, is dead. He was 57. The reggae music maestro, it was learnt, died in a hospital in New York on Monday around 5:45pm after a prolonged illness. Majek was a household name in Nigeria in the late 80s when he released his album ‘Prisoner of Conscience’, which included the multiple award-winning single ‘Send Down the Rain’, which dominated the airwaves for months. Kano unveils remodeling strategy for Almajiri system   El-Rufai: Jail terms await Islamic clerics for enrolling children    Ganduje: We’re set to remodel the system for conventional learning   Bagudu: We’ll integrate Almajiri children into formal school system       REFORM There are concerted efforts by the governors of Northern states to integrate the Almajiri children into the mainstream  education system. MUHAMMAD KABIR, BABA NEGEDU and AHMED IDRIS examine the commitment and strategies put in place by Kano, Kaduna and Kebbi State Governments to achieve this goal   A…