O ne-day Acting National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress,(APC) Chief Victor Giadom, has faulted critics on the appointment of the Governor of Yobe State, Mallam Mai Mala Buni as the party’s caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee Chairman.   According to him, there was no breach of APC constitution in the appointment as Buni was not elected as APC National Chairman.   There have been criticisms over the appointment of Buni as the APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, as some party members believed that it violated the constitution of the party, which states that you cannot hold an executive position and be elected into party office.   But reacting to the nomination of Buni, Giadom said there was no constitutional violation.   According to him, this would not be the first time a sitting governor of the party would be nominated to chair a committee under the party.   Giadom buttressed his point by citing the APC True Federalism Committee chaired by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai and the National Convention Committee, Chaired by the governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Abubakar Badaru.   He argued that the caretaker committee was more of a Convention Committee but a longer time for planning.   In his words:”It is lack of proper understanding of the Constitution that would make anybody to think that there was a violation.  “If the constitution is properly internalized and interpreted, nobody would be talking of violation.”   He said that instead of party members to complain about the choice of Buni, they should join him to reposition the party for new leadership.   Buni is the chairman of the 13-man committee announced by President Muhammadu Buhari to conduct an Extraordinary National Convention that would usher in new National Working Committee (NWC) members.     Past Acting National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Victor Giadom has faulted critics on the appointment of the Governor of Yobe State, Mallam Mai Mala Buni as the party's caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee Chairman.   According to him, there was no breach of APC's Constitution in the appointment… June 28, 2020 In "News" The Adams Oshiomhole-led national working committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been dissolved. Victor Giadom, Acting National Chairman of the party, announced the development at the national executive council (NEC) meeting of the party at the state house in Abuja. Mai-Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State, was… June 25, 2020 In "Top Stories" major leadership crisis erupted at the National Headquarters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja, yesterday, as two members of the National Working Committee (NWC) laid claims to the vacant position of the National Chairman of the party. The position of the National Chairman became vacant on Tuesday when… June 18, 2020 In "Opinion"