 With the UK now in its tenth week of lockdown, many bored Brits have been getting frisky to keep themselves entertained while at home.
But a new study has warned that having sex could spread coronavirus, and has advised that couples take preventative steps in the bedroom, reports mirror.co.uk.
This includes avoiding kissing, showering before and after sex, and even wearing masks while having sex.
In the study, researchers from Harvard University ranked different sexual scenarios, based on how like you are to catch coronavirus during them.
Abstinence and masturbation were ranked as ‘low risk’ sexual activities, while sex with people within a household, and sex with people from other households were ranked as ‘high risk’ activities.
While the researchers admit that abstinence isn’t possible for many people, they’re urging people to take certain measures to reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
The study comes shortly after an expert claimed that recovered coronavirus patients should avoid sex for 30 days.
Veerawat Manosutthi, a senior medical expert at the Thai Disease Control Department, has advised that patients who have overcome COVID-19 should avoid getting intimate for 30 days, and has even warned against kissing.
Speaking to Khaosod English, Manosutthi said: “Those who believe themselves to be free of the virus should use condoms when having sex.
“Kissing should also be avoided as it is also known that it can spread through the mouth.”
Manosutthi’s advice is based on a recent study, which found that some men have traces of the virus in their semen.
In the study, researchers from Shangqiu Municipal Hospital took semen samples from 38 male coronavirus patients in China’s Henan province.
The team analysed the samples on January 26 and again on February 16, and found that 16% of the men had traces of the virus in their semen.
In the study, published in JAMA, the researchers wrote: “The presence of viruses in semen may be more common than currently understood, and traditional nonsexually transmitted viruses should not be assumed to be totally absent in genital secretions.” 