Only a few people knew the late music icon Majek Fashek better than his cousin and former band mate Amos McRoy, who is now a pastor at Seed of Abraham International Christian Centre. As cousins, McCoy and Majek started their music careers together and were part of the group called Jastix along with Black Rice who was the lead singer. One of the main gigs of the band was to play at music show ‘Music Panorama’ which aired on NTA Benin – a gig facilitated by Orits Wiliki. When the… The Deputy Governor of Edo State, Mr. Philip Shaibu, yesterday said the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has unlocked the previously trapped economic potential of Edo State and exposed the state to unlimited investment opportunities as currently witnessed in every sector of the state. The deputy governor maintained that the incumbent administration has laid a solid and enduring base for industrialisation and development of Edo State by creating enabling environment for potential local and foreign investors. Shaibu in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media, Mr. Benjamin Atu,… The leading aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has announced the appointment of three political leaders in the state into his Campaign Organisation, a move that is indicative of his strong support within the party. This is expected to strengthen his lead ahead of the primary election slated for June 22. Among those appointed are Mr. Ehiogie West-Idahosa, a three-term member of the House of Representatives and former Chairman of House Committee on Petroleum Matter; Mr. Samson Osagie, former Minority Whip of the… Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State yesterday sworein 14 local government council Sole Administrators, less than 24 hours after the state House of Assembly dissolved their offices as council chairmen with the governor’s approval. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the governor has had a running faceoff with the council chairmen who were elected for a three-year tenure under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Matawalle inaugurated the sole administrators at a quiet event in the Government House in Gusau. He said: “We received reports that… Super Eagles assistant coach, Joseph Yobo, has said the Nigeria Professional Football League is strong enough to throw up players who can succeed in the senior national team but they (players) must come with the right mentality. There have been mounting calls for increased number of home-based players in the Super Eagles as the national team coach Gernot Rohr has come under intense pressure to look inwards as he continues to build his team. The German coach has managed to use only 23 players from the local league since he… The House of Representatives yesterday said it would engage the 36 states Houses of Assemblies on the need for the domestication of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act and the Child Rights Act. Speaker, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, said the engagement would be technologically conducted due to the urgency and critical nature of the issue, considering the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the escalation of sexual and gender-based violence against women and girls in the country. The Speaker disclosed this while hosting some sexual and gender-based Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) in his… Police in Lagos have arrested, a Botony undergraduate Student of University of Lagos (UNILAG) for allegedly kissing his three year-old step sister in a viral video recently. The suspect, identified as Adeyeye Oluwatosin, was arrested by detectives attached to the command at Sagamu, Ogun State. In a statement yesterday by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said the suspect was arrested after the attention of the command was drawn to the viral video showing the suspect where he was kissing the minor. The incident was said to… Following the gruesome gang rape and murder of a National Diploma student of the Federal College of Animal Health and Production, Ibadan, Barakat Bello, in Akinyele area of the state, the Oyo State House of Assembly is set to review existing laws on sexual violence and input stricter punishment. The Chairman, Parliamentary Council of the House of Assembly, Mr. Ayotunde Fatokun, made the assertion while speaking with newsmen yesterday in Ibadan shortly after visiting and commiserating with the family of Barakat. Barakat, who was studying Science Laboratory Technology at the… Against the background of new research findings suggesting that couples should adorn face masks during sexual intercourse to curb the spread of COVID-19, medical experts have affairmed that intercourse was a fast rate of transmitting coronavirus. Both Chairman, Lagos Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) Committee on COVID-19, Dr. Japhet Olugbogi and Dr. Samuel Okerinde, a public health physician, admitted that where one partner in a couple or one in an intimate relationship was already exposed to COVID-19, sexual intercourse would be a veritable way of transmitting the virus to the other… The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, yesterday upheld the de-registration of Hope Democratic Party (HDP) by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The court consequently reaffirmed the powers of INEC to deregister political parties. The court in its judgment in a suit filed by HDP against the electoral umpire challenging it powers to deregister it as a political party, said INEC is empowered by the constitution to deregister parties that failed to meet provisions of Section 225(a). HPD had approached the court asking it to declare that INEC cannot…