 Plateau State government has shut down a private hospital, Rayfield Medical Centre, for two weeks following the outbreak of COVID-19 cases in the hospital.  One patient died in the hospital while 17 of it’s health workers tested positive for coronavirus.  The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Nimkong Ndam Lar, disclosed this while briefing journalists yesterday at the old Government House, Jos.  Lar said the state had immediately shut down the hospital for the safety of people in the state.  He said: “The recorded cases of COVID-19 in the hospital was as a result of two patients who were admitted to the hospital who tested positive. One of the two patients died while 17 health workers in the hospital have been tested and confirmed positive.”  The commissioner said already the hospital had been closed down and the state Ministry of Health would decontaminate the entire hospital to make it safe for public use after the two weeks. He added: “In line with the state protocols, the hospital services have been suspended for two weeks and the entire facility closed for fumigation and we hope to resume normal services to the general public immediately after the expiration of the mandatory two weeks. “As of today, Plateau State has recorded a total of 198 confirmed cases, 113 discharged patients, five deaths, while a total of 29 health workers are affected.” Meanwhile, the Plateau State government has decried the lack of adherence to guidelines for COVID-19 by most individuals and some organisations following the suspension of the lockdown order by Governor Simon Lalong on June 11, 2020. The Commissioner for Information and Communication, Hon. Dan Manjang, said in a statement yesterday that government had noted the flagrant disregard for the compulsory use of face masks by all citizens outside their homes “where many go about without any”.  He said: “There is also high disregard to social distancing requirement in public places such as markets, shops, hotels, social centres, restaurants, public transport and some places of worship.” “Some others have chosen to ignore the provision of water, soap and sanitizers in entrances to such public places thereby constituting greater risk to the citizens.”  