Waziri Bulama, an architect and Acting National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has met with the party’s senior staff, with a promise of better working conditions. Bulama, who was inaugurated on May 18, by the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, as the party’s acting National Secretary pending the approval of the National Executive Committee,(NEC) formally assumed work at the National Secretariat last week. He took over from the Deputy National Secretary, Hon. Victor Giadom, as the ruling party’s Acting National Secretary. Giadom was made Acting Secretary after the… Thousands of students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) yesterday trooped out in Benin, Edo State, to protest the gruesome murder of one of their colleagues, Miss Vera Uwaila Omozuwa. The students were led by the UNIBEN Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof. Lillian Salami, members of the management staff of the institution, the member representing Ovia Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hon. Dennis Idahosa and the National President of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Com Bamidele Akpan. The protesters called on the authorities to carry out a full scale investigation… Suspected herdsmen armed with sophisticated weapons invaded Itakpa in Obi Local Government Area of Benue State and killed about 13 people. Reports said thousands of residents of the local government, old men, women and children have been displaced from their ancestral homes. One of the natives of the area, Mr. Lawrence Okwe, told New Telegraph in Makurdi that because “Igede women do not see mangled or charred or mutilated bodies of dead people, some of the bodies were hurriedly buried before daybreak”. Okwe said the herdsmen invaded the communi ty… Another violates 85-year-old woman   Police in Ogun State have arrested a 25-year-old man, Wasiu Bankole, for allegedly raping a 70-year-old woman. Also in Niger State, another 25-yearold man, Ezekiel Yunana, reportedly raped an 85-year-old woman. Detectives from Agbado Division in Ado- Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state apprehended Bankole on Wednesday, about 24 hours after he reportedly committed the crime.   The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, yesterday said the suspect had confessed to the crime. Oyeyemi disclosed that the septuagenarian rape victim (name withheld)… Experts yesterday warned officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force against actions which may tarnish the image of the force. The Commissioner of Police in charge of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), Fiminhan Adeoye, the Commander in charge of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), DSP Olatunji Disu, and a don, Dr. Jide John, gave the warning at a workshop for RRS officers at the Lagos State Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. Speaking on the topic: “PLAN principle and de-escalation of crisis,” Adeoye warned policemen that the repercussions of some… Mother of Barakat Omolara Bello has asked God to expose the killers of her daughter within seven days. Barakat, an 18-yearold National Diploma student of Federal College of Animal Health and Production Technology, Moor Plantation in Ibadan, was murdered by some men on Tuesday. The victim, who was studying Science Laboratory Technology (SLT), was murdered after resisting attempts to rape her. Her distraught mother, Mrs. Bello, offered the prayers at her Akinyele residence in Ibadan. The mother recalled that the killers of her daughter did not let Barakat fulfill her… Journalists in Ekiti State have described the late Saturday Editor of New Telegraph Newspaper, Alhaji Waheed Bakare, as a selfless professional whose demise is a great loss to the industry. Bakare died on Sunday, May 24 during a brief illness. The state Chairman, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Comrade Rotimi Ojomoyela, said Bakare was a thoroughbred and a quintessential journalist. He said: “Unfortunately we lost him at this time we are talking about the challenges we are facing in journalism; welfare of journalists. “He was a journalist who had the… National Association of Government General Medical and Dental Practitioners (NAGGMDP), an affiliate body of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), has declared indefinite strike over the abduction of their colleague, Dr. Wisdom Iboyitete. Iboyitete was abducted a few days ago. The body said host communities and hoodlums should stop seeing hospital staff as strangers and soft targets for kidnapping. The victim was kidnapped on duty at the Central Hospital at Ojobo town in Burutu, a coastal community. In their sixpoint demand notice, tagged; “Kidnapping of Doctors in Delta State: A Case… Gunmen have abducted two Chinese working in a mining site in Ebonyi State. The incident occurred in a mining site at Ihietutu, Ishiagu in Ivo Local Government Area. The abduction occurred barely six months after two Chinese, who were working at a construction site in the same Ivo Local Government Area, were kidnapped. The victim of the latest abduction on Wednesday are staff of the Greenfield Metals Nigeria Limited, which specialises in lead and zinc mining. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Loveth Odah,confirmed the abduction of the… Some government officials in Ebonyi State have tested positive of coronavirus pandemic. This is even as the number of cases in the state has risen to 75 with 49 still active while 26 have been treated and discharged. A total of 3,000 samples of the virus were collected and tested out of which 75 tested positive including the government officials. The officials are said to be undergoing medical attention at the state treatment centre. Following this, Governor Dave Umahi has directed that government offices be shut from 4th June, 2020…