The Deputy Governor of Edo State, Mr. Philip Shaibu, yesterday said the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has unlocked the previously trapped economic potential of Edo State and exposed the state to unlimited investment opportunities as currently witnessed in every sector of the state. The deputy governor maintained that the incumbent administration has laid a solid and enduring base for industrialisation and development of Edo State by creating enabling environment for potential local and foreign investors. Shaibu in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media, Mr. Benjamin Atu, and made available to Saturday Telegraph, stressed that Obaseki was instrumental in the developmental blueprint of the former Governor Adams Oshiomhole’s administration and this has made it easy for the administration to fast track the much needed development in the state by creating new areas of economy engagement. He therefore urged the people of Edo State to embrace politics anchored on qualities like credibility, competence and ability to perform and deliver the dividends of democracy to the people. “As an investment merchant before venturing into politics, the governor has initiated and stimulates commercially viable partnership that has currently given effect to private public partnership in government. “The investment and industrial policy of Edo State is designed to encourage, protect and promote the rapid development of the manufacturing and other allied commercial sectors in the State. “This is to ensure the even spread of industrial companies and enterprise to check population drift from the rural to urban areas thereby promoting a balance economics development across the state. “This requires the realigning earnings from oil to the agricultural and agro-services section to cushion the effects of Edo without oil. “The reality all over the world today has shown that any government that didn’t create investment friendly environment to foster the growth of the industrial sector will soon be heading for a crash. “This is the more reason we need an investment sensitive government and governor like Mr. Godwin Obaseki to continue to pilot the affairs of the state, particularly with the current crisis of COVID-19 when many viable states in the country unable to pay workers salary. “We need an Obaseki in this critical period of our life in order to maintain the path of progress and development. “Governor Godwin Obaseki possesses the ability, courage, sincerity and guiding philosophy to provide the right leadership for the betterment of the people.”  