 As the current Mr Universe Nigeria, 27-years-old Emmanuel Arogboritse is regarded as the most handsome man in Nigeria presently. Added to having good looks, the Delta State-born is a man of many talents. He is a real estate agent, an electrical technician, an urban farmer and has a small business in mini importation. In this interview with IFEOMA ONONYE, he speaks about his passion for making Nigerian cities cleaner and how he handles advances from women.   What motivated you to go into pageantry? My sisters, cousins and close friends have always thought I’d do well as a model. My older sister and cousin were basically the people that pushed me into pageantry and Mr Universe Nigeria was my preferred platform so I decided to try. Before signing up for ‘Mr Universe’, I have been following the brand for a while now and I like how it has evolved over the years. And every year tends to be bigger and better than the last. I like the way it empowers youths and train them to be better people Tell us about the obstacles you faced during the contest and how you overcame them? The entrepreneurial task was the first obstacle. Really, it was more like a marketing training and I overcame it by being a good marketer. Secondly, I’m more of a night owl than a morning person, so waking up at 5am in camp and going straight for the rigorous morning workouts was very daunting for me and also all the numerous tasks in camp, but I was very determined to go through it all. I was going to do all it took to increase my chances of winning the competition. What do you think made you stand out amongst other contestants, and did you expect that win? Honestly I had very strong co-contenders who had good chances of winning the pageant. At some point, I gave up hope that I could win but I pushed myself and tried to give more than my 100% in all the tasks given and I think the judges saw something. My determination and willpower to succeed went a long way to also help me win. I wanted to win, but when I got to camp and saw the guys I was going up against, at some point I thought to myself “Emmanuel there is no way you can win this” notwithstanding I did all I could and gave in my best and I’m glad I won. What do you love about your representing Nigeria in other bigger contest? It’s both exciting and demanding at the same time, But I like how people actually wants to listen to me talk. I’m looking forward with much enthusiasm for bigger things to come. It was a very eye opening experience for me it has introduced me to an extroverted side of me I didn’t know existed, I have also made a lot of friends that I think might last for a lifetime. Do you have role models you look up to? I really didn’t have role models in the entertainment industry but I admire Barrack Obama for how he moved from being a small town boy to the first black President of the US, Robert Kiyosaki for his knowledge in business and financial literacy, Julious Malema and Nelson Mandela for the fight for Africanism. And lately Boris Kodjoe and Tyson Beckford. Has being a pageant king ever clashed with your personality? No. I’m still the same person I used and will always be, but working towards a better me; I am constantly trying to improve on myself. Before ‘Mr Universe Nigeria’, what careers or jobs were you into? I am a real estate agent. I import human hair extensions, I have people that sell those for me and I also sell online @arogs_hair on Instagram. I own a plantain farm where I started with 1000 suckers and now I have about 1200 plantain trees. Which pet project are you working on? My pet project is something I’m actually passionate about and looking forward to do much more with it. We’ve all gone around Lagos and most major cities in Nigeria and it really gets to me when I see how untidy many places are, compared to cities in other countries. I know we can do better. That’s why I came up with “CLINER NAIJA PROJECT” which aims to sensitize Nigerians on the dangers of dirty environment. We emphasize on plastic waste and how much it has, and is still damaging our environment, especially our water bodies. We are specifically interested in plastic waste because of the danger it poses, how harmful it is to us and our health and also how long plastics take to degrade. It is the most difficult waste material to handle considering it’s volume and how much we use plastics in our everyday life. We are using this project to call on Nigerians and the government to do more as regards curbing the menace of plastic waste. We organise youths to embark on cleanup exercises. We are calling on the government to increase the number of litter bins in public spaces, wider sensitisation on use and reuse of plastics (via campaigns, workshops, special project productions), the importance of reduction and/or recycling their plastic waste Also, the private sector such as environmental agencies, plastic bottling companies, factories and manufacturing industries to also consider the use of recycled materials. We are currently looking for sponsorship and collaborations, so that we can do much more than we are doing now. We can be reached on @cliner_naija on Instagram COVID-19 has grounded most businesses presently, how are you coping with your real estate business, the import business? With the economic hardship and the recent rise of exchange rate, business is without a doubt very slow almost paralyzed at the moment. I still have some stock for now after which I won’t have a choice than to restock with new rates and adjust my prices accordingly. I’m very hopeful though and I know we’d come out stronger. Besides I’m jack of many trade and this hard time has forced me to look for new possibilities. Something new would unveil soon. A good looking man is every girl’s spec. A good looking man with a title is every girl’s dream, how often do you get advances from women? Are you harassed daily? Advances from ladies is very interesting. I wouldn’t particularly call it harassment though sometimes I enjoy the attention. I get a lot of direct messages and I try to reply as much of those messages as I can. What are the qualities you want in a would be wife? Supportive, understanding, loyal. Someone that I can grow to be best of friends with and very important, she should match my kinda crazy when we are alone. Hahaha, you don’t want to know about that. Are you in a relationship now? Yes I am. I’m married to J e sus. But on a more serious note I’m in a very serious relationship with myself. What has been your dream aside the job you are doing now? My dream is and has always been to travel around the world. If jobs like being a pilot, travel blogger or mariner weren’t as expensive and rare to come by I’d probably be one of those by now. Where would we be seeing you in the next 2 years? Achieving more,scaling new grounds and reaching higher heights in business, family and entertainment. Any message to all the aspiring boys who dream of being ‘Mr Universe Nigeria’? Work on being the best version of yourself, follow your dreams and reach for the stars and the sky can be your starting point. 