Hon. Christopher Inegbedion is the Edo State chairman of African Democratic Congress (ADC). He spoke to ONYEKACHI EZE on the preparedness of the party for the September governorship election in the state   How prepared is your party for the Edo State governorship election? Since the coming into being of the ‘new Edo ADC’ under my leadership, the party has been able to mobilize members from the state level to the senatorial, local government down to ward and unit levels. Today, ADC can be found in all the nooks and crannies of Edo State. ADC is a liberal and people oriented party; we are an all-inclusive party and we will leverage on this to rescue the people of Edo State from the misrule of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) governments over the years. The two major parties have ruled and failed Edo State people. In ADC, we have built our political structure across the three senatorial districts in Edo State – Edo South, Edo Central and the Edo North. The party has resolved to be media friendly and very soon there would be a radical and full fledge membership drive to complement and solidify this already established structure. How many governorship aspirants have so far collected the ADC nomination forms for the June 25 primary and what measures have you put in place to ensure a level playing field for all aspirants during the primary? So far so good; two distinguished persons have indicated interest. They are persons of impeccable character. Here in ADC, we jettison the sale of ticket or monetization of voting in the primary election. We believe in internal democracy. We will create an equal level playing ground for the aspirants to contest and realize their political dreams as we have no anointed candidate. The aspirants will be collecting their nominations forms next week and we will be providing a level playing ground for them to contest and test their popularity. Apart from the ruling party in the state, the APC, there is the PDP. Do you think ADC has what it takes to beat these two parties in the Edo governorship election? It is obvious that the APC and PDP have nothing more to offer to the Edo State people. They have failed the people over time. It is high time we do away with these corrupt parties. The policies of these parties are draconian in nature. They and their surrogates are political contractors and merchants. There have been maladministration, corruption and hunger in the land as well as financial impropriety in government. They have made the people hungry and there is no single sector where you can point to that is developed. We will sell the manifesto of the ADC toEdo people in order to be voted into power as a credible alternative to the PDP and APC governments. ADC did not win any seat in Edo State in the 2019 general elections. What do you think has changed since then that will make the people of the state give their mandate to the party? There have been lots of changes in ADC that will make the people of the state to give their mandate to the party. The people of Edo State feel betrayed by their leaders. They are hungry and have been neglected. The ADC’s manifesto is to create a grassroots political party, of and for Nigerians. We believe that leaders should be models to the people. ADC at all levels, including the Edo State chapter, is committed to this. There is extraordinary strength in our diversity. We are an all-inclusive party. Our women, youth, elders, persons with disability, the vulnerable persons are indispensable partners in all our missions. We build bridges and promote friendship, cooperation and collaboration. We believe that in working together, we make great things happen. As I asserted before, since the coming into office of the ‘new Edo ADC’ under my leadership, the party has been able to mobilize from the state level down to ward and unit levels. We are liberal in approach, people oriented and democratic in governance, and we urge our aspirants to be courageous and ‘dare to win.’ They should see the party as an equal partner to the realization of their political dreams. What will ADC do differently in Edo State if given the mandate? In other words, what programmes do you have for the people of the state? ADC will never field candidates that have questionable character. ADC’s manifesto is three fold – provision of potable water, generation of additional megawatts of electricity for uninterrupted power supply, and micro economic financing for start-ups and entrepreneurship. In all of these, it is clear that these three-point agenda is concise, simple and straight forward. Our aspirants are foresighted and well exposed. Any of them we presented to Edo people will transform the state better than any of the APC or PDP candidate. Since 1999, the PDP and the AC/APC have ruled Edo State at different periods, how would you rate the administrations of the two parties? I will rate their administrations very low because there is nothing to write home about any of them. APC in Edo State has been factionalised, do you see ADC benefiting from the fallout of the crisis and how prepared is your party to accommodate new members without incurring the disaffection of old members? We intend to capitalize on the shortcomings of the ruling party. It is said that a house that is divided against itself will never stand. We are more united in the ADC than the APC or any other party in Nigeria. We shall leverage on our inclusiveness to win the Edo governorship election. Here in ADC, there is no disaffection among us because we speak with one voice. We rate the party’s interest above any selfish or parochial interest. Are you satisfied with the handling of the coronavirus pandemic in Edo State by the APC-led administration and if ADC were to be in government this time, what do you think the party would do that APC is not doing? Thank you for this question! In any sane clime, the primary responsibility of any government is to first of all, save and preserve life. The COVID-19 pandemic spread has not been properly handled. People are locked indoors and curfew imposed without any palliative measures put in place. Markets have been moved to schools. My question is: Is the COVID-19 pandemic found in the market places? If ADC were to be in the government, palliative measures would have been made for the homes; more isolation centres and sophisticated medical facilities would be installed in the various hospitals; precautionary measures would have been taken to provide face masks and sanitizers. The government would have made sure that our environments are fumigated from time to time.  