 TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on former governor of Oyo State, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, who clocked 70 years last week   F ormer Oyo State governor, Otunba Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala, last Wednesday, June 3, joined the league of septuagenarians and there is no doubt that the retired Police officer still remain active politically at 70, especially in Oyo State and his home town, Ogbomoso, where he dictates the tune till date.   At 70, Alao-Akala still stands tall because of his contribution to the growth and development of Oyo State. This is one of the reason he has been receiving congratulatory messages from different quarters on his joining the septuagenarian club.   Passionate about the growth and development of the people as well as his community and state, the police officer turned politician did his best as local government chairman and governor by providing dividends of democracy to those who gave him the opportunity to serve in public office. For several years, he has remained steadfast in promoting the ideals of good governance in Oyo State and this is one of the reasons why he took part in democratic process on many occasions so that he can use public office to better the lots of his people.   Born on June 3, 1950, Alao-Akala had his elementary school at Osupa Baptist Day School, Ogbomoso. After completing of his primary education, he proceeded to the Kamina Barracks Middle School, 5th Battalion of Infantry Tamale, Ghana. On leaving Kamina Barracks Middle School, he went to Government Technical College, Tamale, Ghana and later Ogbomoso High School, Ogbomoso. In his quest for more knowledge, Alao-Akala also attended Nigeria’s premier high institution, the University of Ibadan.   Young Alao-Akala was enlisted as Cadet Inspector of Police in June 1974 at the Nigeria Police College, Ikeja. He was recommended for overseas training at the Metropolitan Police Training School, Peel Centre, Hendon, London. He also attended the Administrative Staff College, Topo, Badagry; the Nigeria Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Victoria Island, Lagos; Police Staff College, Jos; Command and Staff College, Jaji. He participated as a Nigerian delegate at two INTERPOL Conferences in Nice, France and Malaga, Spain.   It is of note that Alao-Akala passed Staff College (Psc) in 1990 and obtained Diploma in Business Administration (1998), Doctor of Civil Law (DCL) Honoris Causa, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso (2006), Doctor of Science (Political Science) Honoris Causa, Lead City University, Ibadan (2008).   As a Police officer, he served his country in different capacities to contribute his quota to the security issue in Nigeria. From the position of Station Officer in the Nigeria Police, he became Administrative Officer, Federal Operations at the Force Headquarters, Lagos. He later rose to the position of Operations Officer, FEDOPS, Lagos. He became the Personal Assistant to the Assistant Inspector-General of Police and subsequently the ADC to the Inspector-General of Police.   He also held several command positions in the Police Force. He was O/C Advanced Training Wing, Police College, Ikeja; Divisional Police Officer, Bode Thomas, Lagos; Divisional Police Officer, Iponri Police Station, Lagos; Railway Divisional Police Officer, Nigeria Railways, Ebutte Meta, Lagos; Area Commander, Western District, Nigeria Railway Police, Ibadan; CSP Admin. Gongola State Command, Yola; CSP Admin. Kwara State Command, Ilorin and Assistant Commissioner of Police, Agodi Area Command, Ibadan, Oyo State Police Command, Ibadan.   In September 1995, Alao-Akala retired from the Nigeria Police as Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Logistics and Supply, Oyo State Police Command, Eleyele in Ibadan, Oyo State.   In his quest to offer qualitative service to the people, Alao-Akala ventured into partisan politics after retirement from the Nigeria Police. He started his political career as a member of New Dimension. He participated in the zero-party local government election of 1996 and later co-founded the United Nigeria Party (UNP) before its fusion with United Nigeria Congress (UNC) to form (United Nigeria Congress Party (UNCP). He participated in the Ogbomoso Federal Constituency (One) primary election of the UNCP in 1997.   He contested and won the chairmanship seat of the Ogbomoso North Local Government along with seven councilors under the platform of All Peoples Party (APP) in 1998. He was elected vice-chairman of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State Chapter between 1999 and 2002. Alao-Akala founded the Ogbomoso Unity Forum, a political association, which later joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) prior to the 2003 polls.   Alao-Akala’s journey to the Oyo State government house started in 2003 as he was elected and served as deputy governor of Oyo State from May 2003 to January 2006. He was deputy to Governor Rashidi Ladoja.  Following the political drama in Oyo State that led to the impeachment of Governor Ladoja, Alao-Akala became Oyo State governor on January 12, 2006 and served for 11 months. His emergence as governor was historic because till date, he remains the only non-Ibadan man to have governed Oyo State in the present political dispensation from 1999 till date, and the second non-Ibadan governor of Oyo State since the creation of the State on February 3, 1976.   As Governor of Oyo State, Alao-Akala did his best for the state and contributed immensely to the growth and development of the “Pacesetter State.” His actions while in office as number one citizen of the state showed deep love for the people of the state.   He left office in December 12, 2006, as a result of the ruling of the Supreme Court, which overturned Ladoja’s impeachment and ordered that he should be reinstated as governor. As a result of the change in political forces in Oyo State, Alao-Akala who was backed then by the late strongman of Ibadan politics, Alhaji Lamidi Adedibu, emerged as the PDP governorship candidate for the 2007 governorship polls.   He contested and won the gubernatorial poll and served as Governor of Oyo State between May 29, 2007 and May 29, 2011. He couldn’t realised his second term ambition as Senator Abiola Ajimobi of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) won the 2011 governorship poll.   Prior to the 2015 general election, Ala-Akala on December 8, 2014 dumped PDP and defected to the Labour Party in Oyo State. Two days after, December 10, 2014, the former governor formally declared his intention to re-contest in the gubernatorial election of Oyo State on the platform of the Labour Party in the February 2015 general election. Other party gubernatorial aspirants in Labour Party stepped down for him, thereby allowing him to emerge as the Labour Party’s gubernatorial flag bearer in Oyo State. But he could not muster enough votes to win the election as he lost the poll again to Governor Ajimobi.   On December 16, 2017, the former governor defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) during a ceremony in Ibadan, the capital city of Oyo State. He took part in the party’s governorship primary for 2019 elections and lost the ticket to a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Adabayo Adelabu.   But few months to the gubernatorial poll, Alao-Akala in October 2018, defected to the Action Democratic Party (ADP) and emerged as the party’s gubernatorial candidate for Oyo State. But based on the political permutation in Oyo State, Alao-Akala after the February 23, 2019 presidential and National Assemblies elections, defected back to APC, thereby stepping down for the APC governorship candidate, Adelabu.  Though APC as a ruling party lost to the then opposition PDP, Alao-Akala proved his worth in the state politics by winning some legislative seats for both ADP and APC.   Besides public service, Alao-Akala is also a businessman. He is the founder and chairman of TDB Global Ventures and Parrot FM radio station, both in Ogbomoso, Oyo State. He is also a writer and author of numerous publications on policing and local government, among which are: Training of police cadet Inspectors: Prospects and Problems (May 1985); Police and The Media: A Critical Approach (June 1990) and Conflict Resolution and Crime in Local Governments (September 2004).   The former Oyo State governor has also received multiple accolades, commendations, recognitions, awards and several honorary chieftaincy titles, among which are: Otun of the Source, Otunba of Akinmorin, Bobajiro of Owu Kingdom, Basorun Atunluto of Akure, Mayegun of Okeho, Akogun of Ilua, Aare Asoludero of Ibarapa, Agbaakin of Iseyin, Ariwajoye of Ede land, Atunluse of Ife Odan, Balogun of Igbojaye land, Aare Kebimapalu of Oyo State and Bobagunwa of Ogbomosoland.   As a philanthropist and strong believer in education, he has personally awarded scholarships to scores of less-privileged children. The former governor also speaks English, Yoruba, Hausa, (Twi, Fanti and Dagbani) and Ghanaian languages fluently.   Alao-Akala is a voice to be reckoned with in Ogbomoso town because of his love for the people. This explains why he always dictates the political tune during elections either at the local, state or national level. He was born into a Christian, Baptist family and he has never deviated from that path.  