      REFORM
There are concerted efforts by the governors of Northern states to integrate the Almajiri children into the mainstream  education system. MUHAMMAD KABIR, BABA NEGEDU and AHMED IDRIS examine the commitment and strategies put in place by Kano, Kaduna and Kebbi State Governments to achieve this goal  A new strategy that will trigger reforms, revolutionise education sector towards integrating and enrolling thousands of Almajiri children in the North into the mainstream of school system to acquire conventional education is unfolding.   In 2014, at the twilight of President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, the Federal Government launched the Almajiri School Programme in which several billions of naira was invested.   But, some of the Northern state governors then did not take the issue serious, and the policy failed at the implementation level, as many of the Almajiri schools were left to rot away and the young boys were left on the streets to cater for themselves.   With the faulty implementation of the programme various stakeholders criticised and condemned it as a failed project.   Now, over a decade after, the Northern Governors’ Forum seemed to show more commitment in their renewed efforts at ending the Almajiri system mainly prevalent in the region. But, under the fresh remodeling strategies of the Governments of Kano, Kaduna and Kebbi States, efforts are being intensified to end child begging by providing them with functional and quality formal education and Islamic knowledge.   The current moves, it was learnt would not have been unconnected with the controversies trailing the Almajiri Qur’anic Education with its devastating effects and its consequence on efforts to build a virile society.   The Almajiri system over the years has been facing enormous challenges that called for serious concerns on the part of the government of the region, which had tried severally to bring sanity to the system or totally eradicate the practice, but to no avail.   However, following the outbreak of Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic in the country since March and its attendant crisis on education and living condition of the people, the Governors of Northern states, under the Northern Governors’ Forum were compelled to return the Almajiri children to their states of origin in effort to give them formal education.   Despite the controversies that greeted the moves, some governors seemed to be more fixated in ensuring the abolition of Almajiri Qur’anic system of education in their states as the only way out, and that there is no going back on the decision.   Determined to sanitise and overhaul the state’s education sector, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, had insisted that the state would no longer accommodate or tolerate the old way of Almajiri Qur’anic Education system.   This was as governor explained that it was high time that the Almajiri system should be phased out in the entire Northern geo-political zones of the country.   “In Kano State we have abolished the old system of Almajiri Qur’anic Education system, which allows for infiltration of our society with all sorts of negative tendencies becoming of the old system,” he said.  According to Ganduje, the state is set to remodel the Almajiri system to tally with the conventional educational system with consciousness that the task is a herculean one that required full attention, dedication, zeal and commitment on the part of his administration.   Now, under the Remodeling exercise, the state government, the Commissioner for Education, Muhammad Sanusi Kiru, pointed out, would absorb several thousands of Almajiri children into the existing 12 Tsangaya Schools, established as boarding schools by the Ganduje’s administration for the exercise.   Apart from the existing 12 Tsangaya Schools, the state government had also constructed additional two boarding schools to integrate the Almajiris.   The Commissioner, who also noted that the state has 15 Tsangaya Boarding Schools accommodating over 2,000 children, noted that no fewer than 722 Almajiri children sent back from various states to Kano will be integrated by the state.   New Telegraph also learnt that Kano State after receiving the Federal Government Almajiri Schools in 2014, the state earmarked N4.5 billion to fund the schools, while the administration established other Almajiri Model Boarding Schools in 2015.   The Managing Public Relations Officer of Kano Qur’anic and Tsangaya Almajiri School Board, Mallam Yushau Bichi told New Telegraph that currently there are 12 Tsangaya Almajiri Schools: one for girls and 10 boarding and two day schools across the state.   Similarly, in the Tsangaya Almajiri Schools there are over 1,750 male and female students, who are being provided free feeding, uniforms and other schools materials by the government on monthly basis.   The 15 Tsangaya Almajiri Schools, he said were spread across 10 selected local government areas in the state, adding that apart from the 15 Model Tsangaya Almajiri Schools, there are over 21,000 Local Qur’anic Schools operating in Kano with over 10 million unrecorded students.   Bichi said already plans were underway to conduct a census of all the Local Qur’anic Schools in the state with a view for government to absorbing and accommodating the children into the conventional school system.   Similar efforts were being put in place in Kaduna State, where, the state government-led by Governor Nasir El-Rufai has been vocal against the Almajiri system, especially the manner in which it is being presently practiced across the north.   Shortly after his inauguration in 2015, Governor El-Rufai had announced a policy of free education across the 23 Local Government Areas of the state.   According to the governor, at the end of a three-day retreat for Commissioners and Special Advisers in the state, the policy would take away the burden of tuition fees, school uniforms, feeding at the state boarding schools and other sundry charges from parents.   He, therefore, called on parents to send their wards to school as parents, who failed to send their children and wards to school will face prosecution.   “We will continue to do this until we clear Kaduna State of the menace of Almajiri system, which is not education, but the abuse of privilege and future of the children,” El-Rufai said.   To him, the ultimate goal of the government is for them to acquire formal education without depriving the children of the opportunity to acquire Quranic education or knowledge.   He also said: “Therefore, parents have no excuse not to send their children to school, as the government has taken off all financial burdens from them.   “You should be aware that the Child Welfare and Protection Law, 2018, Section 18 (6), stipulates that any parent or guardian who fails to send his or her child to school commits an offence.”  And, in view of this, the governor warned that parents who enroll their children into the Almajiri education system risk prosecution of two-year jail term.  Under the renewed effort, all the children, El-Rufai directed are to be compulsorily enrolled in primary school nearest to them so they have modern education and life skills in the morning, and continue their Quranic or Islamic education in the afternoon and at weekend.   “That is how many of us got our education. That is what the Northern States’ Governors’ Forum decided. These children are the future of Northern Nigeria,” he stressed.  This was as the governor warned, when he visited some 200 Almajiri children repatriated from Nasarawa State at Government College, Kurmin Mashi, Kaduna that any Islamic cleric, who enrolled any child into the Almajiri system would also be prosecuted and jailed as well as fined between N100,000 and N200,000 per child.   El-Rufai said: “We have been looking at ways and means to end this system because it has not worked for the children; it has not worked for Northern Nigeria and it has not worked for Nigeria. So, it has to end and this is the time.”   According to the state Commissioner for Human Services and Social Development, Hajiya Hafsat Baba, the state had so far received more than 900 Almajiri pupils from Kano, Bauchi, Plateau and Nasarawa States, who are being rehabilitated and reunited with their families.   Meanwhile, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Phoebe Yayi, stressed that every child has the right to free, compulsory and universal basic education, adding that the state government has a duty to provide such education.   She said that in meeting this obligation, the government had declared free and compulsory education for every child from primary to secondary school in the state.   “As such, sending your children to school is no longer a choice, but compulsory and failure to do so is a criminal offence with possible jail term,” Mrs. Yayi noted, warning that on no account should any parent deny his or her child the right to education, which would unlock the child’s full potential for a better future.   Thus, the governor further stressed that every child in Kaduna State must acquire 12-year free and compulsory primary and secondary school education, saying those that could not proceed to senior secondary school will have the opportunity to go to vocational school, which is also free.   Based on this, he, however, promised that the Ministry of Human Services and Social Development would closely monitor the parents to ensure that no child would leave his locality until he finished primary and junior secondary school.   Also, in Kebbi State, the Governor Atiku Bagudu Abubakar-led state government is sparing no efforts at integrating the Almajiri children into the conventional school system.   With the plans to integrate and modernise the Almajiri system of education to align with Western education, the government established the Kebbi State School for the Almajiris to remove the street urchins from the street by modernising their ways of acquiring knowledge away from the primordial ways.   A visit to the school located off NEPA G.R.A in Birnin-Kebbi, the state capital, New Telegraph realised that about 25 children, whose age ranges between five and 10 years old, were accommodated in the modern structures for effective teaching and learning.   Though, the school, which is for pupils in Primary One to Three, is currently closed following the coronavirus pandemic, the modern school structures have well-ventilated classrooms and a large recreation hall, with necessary instructional materials and tools to attract the Alimajari children.   Meanwhile, the government while addressing journalists during the stakeholders’ meeting on COVID-19 at Kalgo Hospital said there was urgent need to integrate the children followed a recent resolution by the Northern Governors’ Forum to return all the Almajiri children to their various states of origin for which over 100 Almajiri children were returned to the state from Kano and Kaduna State respectively.   The Almajiris and their teachers were said to have been received at the IDPs Camp in Kalgo Local Government Area by Governor Bagudu and other stakeholders, including members of the State Executive Council; local government council chairmen and officials of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), among others   Meanwhile, the Chief of Field Office for UNICEF Kaduna, Dr. Zakari Adam, has commended the state government for the efforts in ensuring that all children go to school as against begging in the streets.   He, therefore, reiterated UNICEF’s continued support to the state in all children-related issues such as child protection, education, and health among other areas for uninterrupted growth and development of every child. Adam also stressed the need for all stakeholders – government, civil society, parents, communities, religious and traditional leaders to work together in ensuring that children acquired quality education at all levels.   The Kano State Education Commissioner, Muhammad Kiru, however, told New Telegraph that state is setting the pace with remodeling strategy on Almajiri Qur’anic Education system that will stand the test of time. According to him, previous efforts by the government to integrate the children failed because under the Almajiri Qur’anic Education system, the Allarama (Qur’anic Teachers) were merely gathering about 3,000 Almajiri children in open places without form education.   The Commissioner, who stressed the need to bringing a change to the old order, said the ravaging Coronavirus pandemic had forced the Almajiri practice to a standstill, and also insisted on provision of functional education system as the way out.   According to Sanusi, the Governor Ganduje’s administration is to spend N10 million weekly on the feeding of the Almajiri children, whom over 90 per cent of them neither have shoes nor good clothing on.   “Presently, we cannot fix a budget for the exercise since it is a daily activity that gulps huge resources for their feeding, clothing, and provision of conducive accommodation, with generating sets to make the children comfortable. With all these, the amount of money going into the programme cannot be easily calculated,” he said.  But, further investigations by New Telegraph, however, indicated that before the Ganduje Remodeling and Integration Strategy, Kano State was the first to establish Tsangaya Almajiri School in the country before the Federal Government intervention in 2012, but the government has continued to fund and operate the system despite the paucity of funds facing the state.   “We also distribute writing materials such as exercise books, pencils, erasers, sharpeners, biros and bags where the children keep the materials,” he added.   Kebbi State Governor, however, appealed to parents to allow their children to seek Western education with Islamic knowledge in their respective states, saying: “The decision to return the children to their various states of origin was unanimously taken by the governors in order for them to be enrolled in conventional school system.”   Bagudu added: “This decision was taken in the best interest of the children, as well as the educational development of the region. Education is a basic fundamental human right of these children and we will not tinker with it.”   