 …says junior national teams no longer a priority    T he President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, has revealed that the federation will for now concentrate on the two main national teams in the country, the Super Eagles and the Super Falcons. Making this declaration during a zoom meeting with the media on Monday, Pinnick said with the current situation across the world, the NFF would need to set its priority right.   According to him, the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic has affected a lot of things especially the economy of the world with so many organistions in distress at the moment. “We have to put our priority right and that’s to concentrate on the two main national teams,” he said.   “Those are the two teams we should be able to cater for at the moment and that’s what some other countries are doing too, putting more efforts on the main teams. “I am not saying we are scrapping the other teams, or we are not going to feature in the various competitions, but we have to look at the situation we find ourselves due to the outbreak of the virus. “For now, the junior teams will have to wait because we don’t have the resources to cater for them at the moment.”  Speaking further, the president said the board would be seeking the permission of the ministry of sports as they try to find a solution to the current financial problem already affecting all sports especially football.  Meanwhile, NFF president has said he would be proposing to the board that the junior national teams should share 100 percent of money coming for future age grade championships as they are not going to be giving them any bonus or camp allowance again.   With the age grades championships expected to be developmental programmes, they are ready to give the team total support from FIFA compared to the 30 percent going to the team at the moment.  He added: “Since they are not going to be getting anything during the competition, we will just urge them to go and win the cup so that they could all share the proceeds from FIFA and at the end each one of them might be going home with six to seven thousand dollars each.   “The U-17 team female team is just two games away from qualifying for the World Cup, so they should go there and win it.”   