CAJETAN MMUTA writes on the intrigues that threw up former Secretary to Edo State Government (SSG), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, as the consensus candidate of a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State loyal to the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole   B arring any last minute change, the June 22 primaries election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the September 19 governorship poll in Edo State is going to be a straight fight between the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and a former Secretary to the Edo State Government (SSG), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu.   Like many of his colleagues and predecessors, Governor Obaseki as a first term governor ought to enjoy automatic ticket of his party and emerge as the governorship candidate for the September 19 poll without any major contest. But his political battle with his predecessor and APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is turning to a stumbling block to his second term ambition.   It would be recalled that Obaseki and Oshiomhole for over a year have been locked up in a political war, which has divided Edo APC into two factions led by the two gladiators in the state politics. While those in Obaseki camp are rooting for the re-election of the governor, Oshiomhole and his loyalists are battle ready to truncate the second term ambition of the incumbent governor.   The decision to stop Obaseki led to the formation of a formidable force comprising APC governorship aspirants to present a consensus candidate who will battle with Governor Obaseki for the party’s gubernatorial ticket. And after many weeks of political permutation, the political lot cast by the faction loyal to Oshiomhole fell on Ize-Iyamu, who emerged as the group’s consensus governorship candidate for the June 22 primary election last Tuesday in Abuja.   By his choice, Pastor Ize-Iyamu will now confront Governor Obaseki at the party’s primary fixed by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC for June 22.   Ize-Iyamu, a former SSG and pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) is said to have come tops after he and seven others were screened by a committee set up for the selection exercise. The seven-man committee headed by Senator Francis Alimikhena, representing Edo North Senatorial District, had midwifed the process.   Other members of the screening committee include a former Edo State deputy governor, Lucky Imasuen; ex-Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly, Hon. Thomas Okosun; former Minority Whip of the House of Representatives, Samson Osagie; ex-member of the House of Representatives Patrick Obahiagbon; Deputy Leader of the House of Representatives, Peter Akpatason and General Cecil Esekhaigbe.   The other governorship aspirants who participated in the screening exercise along with Ize-Iyamu were former deputy governor of the state, Dr. Pius Odubu; former Minister for Works, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi; 2012 PDP governorship candidate, Major General Charles Airhiavbere (rtd); former Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Nigeria/United States Parliamentary, Relations, Hon. Ehiozuwa Johnson Agbonyima; former Commissioner of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), representing Edo State, Hon. Saturday Uwulekhue and a health care practitioner, Prof. Ebegue Amadasun, while a business mogul, Solomon Edebiri was said to have voluntarily withdrawn his aspiration.  Engr. Ogiemwonyi came second and was followed by Dr. Odubu during the exercise that produced Pastor Ize-Iyamu as the consensus candidate.   New Telegraph learnt that the other seven aspirants were said to have each contributed N3 million to support Pastor Ize-Iyamu ahead of the epic governorship battle. A source close to one of the aspirants also revealed that the money was for Ize-Iyamu to buy APC’s N22.5 million Nomination and Expression of Interest forms.   Aside the funds, the other aspirants were said to have entered into a secret but binding agreement before the exercise took place.   Based on the development in Edo APC, both Obaseki and Ize-Iyamu are expected to fight for the APC governorship ticket later this month in a contest that many political analysts believe will either make or mar the ruling party in Edo State.   The contest is also going to be a renewed battle between Obaseki and Ize-Iyamu. It will be recalled that the Orhionmwon Local Government Area born politician was PDP governorship candidate slug it out against Governor Obaseki during the 2016 gubernatorial election.   Mr. Lawrence Okah, the State Secretary of the Edo APC faction loyal to Oshiomhole, who confirmed the emergence of Pastor Ize-Iyamu as a consensus governorship candidate said: “There is harmony in the family; we just have one common enemy, Obaseki should go. That is all.”  At the moment, both camps of the APC loyal to Governor Obaseki and those with strong ally with Comrade Oshiomhole under the aegis of Edo Peoles Movement (EPM) are poised for a showdown over the decisions of the APC NWC which has the backing of the latter that direct primary option would be adopted to elect a governorship candidate of the party.   But Governor Obaseki and the enlarged State Working Committee of Edo APC have at their last meeting kicked against the direct primary approved by the NWC of the party, insisting that the resolutions of the Oshiomhole-led leadership contradicted the earlier stand of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party during its last meeting in Abuja, which empowers state chapters of the party to adopt most an acceptable method of their choice.  Obaseki’s opposition to the direct primary method was hinged on the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic and the need to avoid spread of the virus.   Meanwhile, the choice of Ize-Iyamu in some quarters is believed to have not gone down well with key actors in the EPM, which spearheaded the opposition against Obaseki. A good number of members of the group were said to be rooting for Ogiemwonyi, but were arm-twisted by the Oshiomhole factor.   The pressure from Oshiomhole and other forces close to the presidency were reasons for the chaos that rocked the earlier exercise at the residence of former deputy governor, Chief Lucky Imasuen, when the Prof. Julius Ihonvbere-led committee coordinated the mock primary last month in the state.   Similarly, efforts by Oshiomhole as a follow up after the failed mock selection, to impress it on other aspirants to step down for Pastor Ize-Iyamu at his Iyamho country home was rejected by Odubu, Ogiemwonyi and others.   Besides, some opinion leaders and members of the ruling APC amongst the populous Edo South Senatorial District are of the view that Ize-Iyamu’s close ancestral and political affinity with the Esama of Benin Kingdom, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, will have far reaching effect on the future of the Heart Beat state.   Oshiomhole is said to have favoured the former SSG because of his grassroots reach and doggedness on party politics, a masterstroke that earned Ize-Iyamu a closer margin to a near breaking even with Governor Obaseki in the 2016 governorship results released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Edo State.   At the moment, Obaseki is said to be reaching out to key political actors who matters both in Edo and across the country on way out of the political quagmire and removing all known stumbling blocks on his path for a successful secure of his second term bid. The governor and seven APC governors on Sunday met with APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in Lagos to seek his intervention in Edo APC crisis.   Despite Obaseki’s recent move to seek for help in getting the APC governorship ticket on June 22, there seem to be other ligaments that may hamper his chances towards realising the dream project. They include pending legal issues in courts, some of which are yet to be withdrawn by both sides in the internal crisis rocking the party.   Also, the fate of the 12 members-elect of the state House or Assembly who have been outside the legislative proceedings and hard stand of some aggrieved elders and leaders of the party not to yield to the governor’s reconciliation move are said to have played a major role in the gang up against him.    