  I mo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, last week, revoked the payment of pension allowances and gratuities to former governors, their deputies, Speakers and deputy speakers in the state.   He assented to a Bill repealing the law earlier passed by the state assembly.   Speaking after signing the Bill in Owerri, Uzodinma noted that the revocation of the law was necessary because it ran contrary to the 1999 Constitution as amended, which stipulates that a pensioner must have worked for at least, 10 years and must be up to 45 years of age.   The Imo governor pointed out that some of the beneficiaries of such payments equally get huge amount of money as salaries and allowances in other positions they occupied such as members of the Senate and House of Representatives.  The Imo lawmakers had a day before, repealed the 2007 law which empowered ex-governors and ex-Speakers to receive pensions through executive bill.  They did that through, “A bill for a law to Repeal the Imo State Governors and Speakers Pension and privileges law No 5 of 2007 (as amended)”.   A member of the assembly, Uche Ogbuagu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who led debate on the bill, had said that the repeal bill would put an end to all pensions and privileges of ex-governors, their deputies and all ex-speakers who had served the state.   Ogbuagu argued that the pension bill constituted a huge drain on the finances of the state. The bill had provided generous packages for the affected officials, after their service to the state.   By abolishing the dubious bill, Uzodinma followed the example of the Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, who had earlier cancelled such.   A former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, had shortly after leaving office in 2019 complained of not receiving his monthly N10 million upkeep for some months.   Although Yari kicked over the cancellation, it was to no effect, as many Nigerians already knew that the pension and gratuity for ex-governors, deputies and speakers were as dubious as they come.   According to the Zamfara State’s assembly, the past leaders “were collecting over N700 million annually” which he said the present economy cannot accommodate.   We are glad that some governors are beginning to see the light in this direction. We commend Uzodinma for the political will to cancel the dubious pensions and gratuities, just as we hailed Matawalle for his boldness.   That is because we are aware that some of these ex-officers of the state, collected generous severance packages while leaving office. That is apart from the fact that some of them dipped their hands in the public till, looting their states dry with little or nothing to show for it.   Many of them have also moved to other public offices such as the Senate, House of Representatives, ministers and other federal appointments, where they are receiving different payments from other government sources.   Hide original message   The President of the eighth Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, had to publicly state that he was no longer receiving pensions from Kwara State when the issue of pensions for ex-governors, who are in public service became a major point of discussion at the national level.   But many other former governors at the National Assembly or executive arm of government could not publicly state that they were not benefitting from the illegal arrangements.   Across different states of the Federation, from Lagos, Ogun, Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Kwara to Abia, Imo and others, some of the ex-governors, speakers and their deputies keep on cleaning the state off, years after their exit from office.   In most of the states, pensioners, civil servants and others, who need money merely for survival and meeting their daily obligations are reeling in pains over the inability of their states to pay them their due.   We are not unaware that many states of the Federation cannot pay the minimum wage of mere N30,000 to their workers. Yet, by way of conspiracy of the elite, they found ways to be feathering the nests of the ex-state officials, who the payments only add to their bogus and luxurious lives. Not because they need the money, but because they believe it is their entitlements, having served the state, however badly.   With the Coronavirus crisis that has further crippled the economy of both the Federal Government and states, we believe more states should follow the example of Imo and Zamfara states in cutting such wastes as payment to former public officials. We are of the view that former governors, their deputies, speakers and their deputies can survive very well without milking the states further.   In Nigeria and most African countries, it is a huge privilege to attain such heights in the first place. By our thinking, it is already a ticket to wealth. Gone are the days when people served their communities diligently and honestly to the extent that some of the public officials did not build houses in choice areas during their tenure. We cannot continue to fool ourselves that these ex-officials served with sincerity. Thus, there is a need for other states, where such exist to follow suit and cancel them. Such wealth could be allocated to those who need them most – the masses and not to already overfed few.   