The Obi Casmir led-board of the Nigeria Performing Musicians Employers Association of Nigeria (PMAN) has threatened to sue the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) for lack of revenue accountability. Casmir told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday that the step would be part of efforts to address frequent reports of non-payment of accrued revenue to its members. He said: “Nothing is remitted to our musicians from sales, distribution, exhibition, downloading, streaming and sharing of musical content by mobile telephone operators in Nigeria. “As the… John Chikezie The Lagos State Government has facilitated amicable settlement of N1, 242, 765, 569 debt among residents through mediation in the last one year. The State’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), said that the sum came out of the 22,896 cases that were amicably resolved among parties by the Citizens Mediation Centre (CMC). Onigbanjo, Wednesday, presented the scorecard of the Ministry of Justice and its agencies at the Ministerial Press Briefing held at JJT Park, Alausa, Ikeja, as part of activities commemorating the first… At least nine people have been killed and many others injured following an attack on Avong Doka village in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna by suspected bandits. The latest incident comes barely one week after gunmen burnt down several houses at a Rural Grazing Area settlement in Agwala Dutse village also in Kajuru local government area. Although the police authorities in Kaduna are yet to confirm the attack, the Chairman of Kajuru local government area, Mister Cafra Caino told Channels television that the gunmen invaded the village in… Traders, artisans, market women, and farmers from Abia North, Abia State have cautioned former Senator Mao Ohuabunwa and his cohorts to stop insulting the Senator representing Abia North Senatorial District and former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu. According to them, Kalu remains their best as a former Governor and now as a Senator. Following the return of Kalu from the wrong incarceration, the people of Abia North Senatorial District, have been jubilating over what they tagged “the good work continues“, adding that Kalu has never relented… U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday the Republican National Convention set for August in North Carolina would have to be held in another state because of social distancing restrictions ordered by the state’s governor. Trump made the announcement on Twitter hours after Governor Roy Cooper, a Democrat, rejected Republican demands for a full-fledged presidential nominating convention in Charlotte, telling organizers that planning for a scaled-down event was “a necessity” due to the coronavirus, reports Reuters. Cooper “is still in Shelter-In-Place Mode, and not allowing us to occupy the… British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has announced that the United Kingdom will consider revisions in its immigration rules, giving more Hong Kong residents a path to residency and citizenship, amid China’s plan to impose a new national security law in the city. “If China imposes its national security law, the British government will change our immigration rules,” Johnson wrote in an opinion piece published in the South China Morning Post on Wednesday. Johnson’s column in the paper was published as Hong Kong continues to clamp down on dissent and… Manslaughter charges have been filed against three New Zealand police officers over the death of a 55-year-old man in custody last year. The charges allege that the three officers at Hawera police station in the North Island “were grossly negligent in their duty of care to the victim and that this negligence was a causal factor in his death” in June last year. The victim’s family have been told of the charges, which were laid after consultation with the New Plymouth crown solicitor and a Queen’s counsel, as well… Facebook Inc said Tuesday it has suspended accounts associated with white nationalist groups after some advocated bringing weapons to the current wave of anti-racist protests. Company officials also said they removed accounts falsely claiming allegiance to antifa in order to bring discredit to the anti-fascist movement, reports Reuters. Antifa adherents have said they focus on defending people from attacks by authorities or vigilantes, but they have been vilified by President Donald Trump who, without citing evidence, said they were instigators of anti-police violence. Some of the removed white nationalist… Nigeria has recorded 241 new cases of the novel coronavirus, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said on Tuesday. According to the health agency, Lagos reported the highest number with 142 new cases, followed by Oyo with 15 and the FCT with 13. Other states with new cases include Kano with 12, Edo 11, Delta 10, Kaduna and Rivers each with nine, Borno eight, Jigawa four, Gombe and Plateau each with three and Osun and Bauchi each with one. While the number of deaths rose to 314, the… The Federal Government has ordered tight security around strategic telecommunication infrastructure nationwide. The directive will entail taking necessary physical protective measures to safeguard these infrastructure deployed across Nigeria. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, who disclosed this yesterday during an interaction with journalists in Abuja, said the order followed an approval granted by President Muhammadu Buhari to secure these facilities against vandalism and sabotage in the face of rising insecurity in the country. He said that the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), Defence Headquarters (DHQ),…