Two infants yesterday lost their lives when a storey building collapsed at the Ogudu area of Lagos metropolis. Property and other valuables yet to be estimated were also destroyed. Although the cause of the collapse of the building located on 46, Gafari Balogun Street, Ogudu, could not be immediately ascertained, emergency responders and residents of the community said the building was danaged by mudslide behind following heavy downpour experienced in some parts of the state yesterday morning. It was learnt that following the collapse of the building there was confusion as the two children were missing after all other occupants managed to escape. The Director-General (DG), Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, said that two children were trapped in the rubble of the collapsed building. The DG added that they were discovered dead after frantic search and excavation.
He said: “The LASEMA Response Team received a distress call at 12:40p.m. about a collapsed one-storey building at the aforementioned location. On arrival at the scene by agency responders, it was observed that the building collapsed as a result of a mudslide at the rear of the structure caused by heavy rainfall.
“The agents were informed that two children, one male and one female, were trapped and immediately commenced a search and rescue operation. “Unfortunately, they were found dead and their remains are being transported to the mortuary. Integrity test will be carried out on the leftovers of the building which has now been cordoned off.” Meanwhile, aftermath of the sealing of houses on Banana Island and Ikoyi, the state government said it would intensify enforcement of building regulations to address the incessant cases of collapse in the state. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako, who spoke alongside the General Manager of the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA), Biola Kosegbe (an engineer), during the launch of the Green Sticker, an initiative to check improper building development in the state, said that more estates would be visited to check the ugly trend of building collapse. Idris said field officers had been deployed to varius parts of the state to check irregularities in the built sector. He added that building must not only have planning permit but must be certified safe by the LASBCA through the Green Sticker, which, according to him, will guarantee proper monitoring. On her part, Kosegbe said several distressed buildings had been identified and the agency would soon published the list of the structures before the demolition would be carried out. 