Notable broadcaster, Dan Foster, popularly known as The Big Dawg, is dead. New Telegraph learnt that the popular radio personality reportedly died yesterday of COVID-19. Before his death, Foster had worked with Cool FM, Inspiration FM, City FM and Classic FM. Formerly an Idol series judge, he also held a similar position with the Got Talent franchise. Foster was brought up with his three siblings in Washington, D.C. by their father – their mother had died when he was 10. He was partly raised in Baltimore by his grandmother. Foster attended Morgan State University where he studied Broadcasting and Drama. He worked with numerous radio stations including Cathy Hughes Radio One, Mix 106.5 both in America, and Virgin Island-based WTBN before moving to Nigeria in 2000 where he joined Cool FM, quickly becoming popular with Nigerian listeners. A year later, he received an award for Best Radio Presenter of the year. He also won the 2003, 2004, and 2005 Nigeria Media Merit Awards for ‘Best Radio Personality’. Foster was also recognised by the City People Awards as “Media Person of the year” in 2004 and again in 2005. He was also the creator and director of the Cool FM ‘Praise Jam Concerts’ that have taken place since 2004, with a total of over 22,000 people in attendance. In September 2009, Foster left Cool FM for Inspiration FM, but left in 2014 to join City FM. In May 2016, Foster left City FM 105.1 to join Classic FM 97.3 where he worked until his death yesterday. In 2007, Foster was a judge on the one-off Idols West Africa series, alongside Nigerian Dede Mabiaku and Ghanaian Abrewa Nana. During the show’s run he was compared to American counterpart Randy Jackson, although he received some criticisms for not attending the Ghana auditions. He was, until yesterday, a judge on Nigeria’s Got Talent alongside actress Kate Henshaw and comedian Yibo Koko. In 2001, Foster featured in the Nollywood movie Face of a Liar. Foster had a son, Joshua, from his previous marriage. Now married to a Nigerian, Lovina, the couple is blessed with a daughter, Daniella, and a son, Somtochukwu.  