The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has laid the foundation for a hospital that would tackle infectious diseases in Borno State, the state capital.   The facility, which was in response to COVID-19 and other infectious diseases, when completed, would be a centre for the treatment of infectious diseases in the Nort-East geopolitical zone.   Speaking at the groundbreaking and foundation laying ceremony in Maiduguri yesterday, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, said the 200-bed hospital was a way of responding to infectious diseases like… “I ran to the place but before I got there, they already took her to a private hospital and when I saw my daughter, I cried. They raped her; the dress she was wearing that morning was white, but it had turned red; all her body was full of blood. Her mouth and eyes were tied; the hoodlums used a fire extinguisher to smash her head, which left a deep cut. “We were asked to take her for an x-ray; I did not have money but my church… W ith the continuous rise in confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Edo State, the government has reiterated the need for residents to be cautious and observe precautionary measures against the spread of the virus.     Commissioner for Health in the state, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who spoke with journalists in Benin City, expressed worry over the alarming rate of community spread of the virus.   The commissioner noted that the state recorded 23 new confirmed cases with 14 tested at the Irrua Specialist Hospital (ISTH) laboratory, while the remaining… T he Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State at the weekend picked holes in what it described as the ‘assumption of magical and supernatural powers’ by Governor Godwin Obaseki in his constitution of a committee ‘to reconcile with members-elect in the Edo State House of Assembly.’     The Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Mr. Chris Nehikhare said: “The party points out that there is nowhere in our laws and lexicon, where persons who have not reported for duty, whose seats in the assembly have been… L agos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday presented a staff-of-office to the new Oniru of Iru land, Oba Gbolahan Abdulwasiu Lawal with a charge that the newly installed monarch must ensure justice and fairness reign supreme during his reign.     Sanwo-Olu, who described the coronation of the new king as historic, called on people of the kingdom to rally round the new monarch and join hands with him for the growth and progress of Iruland and Lagos State in particular.     Speaking at a well-attended and colourful… …says late Big Boss remains symbol of Nigerian football   S uper Eagles assistant coach Joseph Yobo has said the late coach of the team Stephen Keshi provided the platform for him to become the captain of the senior national team as he described the former handler of the side as the symbol of Nigerian football.     Yesterday, June 7, marked the four years of the demise of Keshi who is the second African to win the African Cup of Nations both as a player and coach after Mahmoud… Last week’s alteration of insurance industry recapitalisation deadline has, again, offered relief to operators and has also provided more space to restrategise. Sunday Ojeme writes     A s widely expected by industry operators, stakeholders and observers, the insurance industry regulator, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), last week, altered the deadline for the ongoing insurance sector recapitalisation. Prior to its circular, analysts had seen the need to effect a shift in the deadline, which was to end by December this year.   Although the extension does not represent a complete departure… P olice have declared wanted, a lady seen in a video sucking a baby’s penis.   The information was released on the police twitter handle, Police Complaint@PoliceNG_CRU.   Police said anyone with useful information concerning the lady on how to find her, should immediately alert the nearest police station.   In the 29-minute video, the lady bends over a naked baby boy lying supine and repeatedly sucks his penis. It is yet not known whether she’s the mother of the baby.   This came on the heels of the arrest… T he International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Plateau chapter, has advocated death sentence as a stringent punishment for rapists in the country. Chairperson of the chapter, Mrs. Mary Izam, disclosed this to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Jos at the weekend.   Izam said there was the need for death sentence to be meted out to all rapists in Nigeria in view of upsurge in the crime with a view to serving as a deterrent.   She said that if death sentence was enacted as punishment for rapists,… T he Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has said candidates who sat for the just-concluded 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), could go ahead print their result notification slips. The Board had restricted the printing of result notification slips and only made results available to candidates only through SMS to avoid anxiety on the part candidates as well as to prevent clustering at cybercafes with the attendant risk of COVID-19 contagion, all in a bid to print result notifications.     In its weekly bulletin made available to newsmen…