*Liverpool kneel in support of late American FIFA has urged competition organisers to use “common sense” when considering whether to punish players for protesting against the death of George Floyd during matches.
The German FA (DFB) says it is considering sanctions against players after several demonstrated this weekend, reports Sky Sports.
The players made the gestures after Floyd, who was black, died in Minneapolis after a white police officer knelt on his neck, despite Floyd warning he could not breathe.
FIFA told the Associated Press: “FIFA fully understands the depth of sentiment and concerns expressed by many footballers in light of the tragic circumstances of the George Floyd case.
“The application of the laws of the game… is left for the competitions’ organisers, which should use common sense and have in consideration the context surrounding the events.”
Jadon Sancho was shown a yellow card for removing his shirt to reveal a “Justice for George Floyd” message after scoring for Borussia Dortmund on Sunday. Team-mate Achraf Hakimi revealed the same message in the game.
On the same day, Marcus Thuram took a knee after scoring for Borussia Monchengladbach, while on Saturday, Schalke’s Weston McKennie wore an armband with the words “Justice for George”.
DFB Vice President Rainer Koch said: “As is the case internationally, the game itself should remain free of political statements or messages of any kind.”
Mass protests have continued to take place in America since Floyd’s death, prompting President Donald Trump to threaten to use the army to restore order.
Post-mortems have classified Floyd’s death as a homicide, ruling he died of asphyxiation following compression to his neck and back.
Meanwhile, Liverpool players have shown their support for the Black Lives Matter movement as Marcus Rashford and Jadon Sancho called for “justice” over the death of American George Floyd.
A number of Liverpool players, including James Milner, Virgil van Dijk and Andy Robertson, tweeted pictures of the squad on one knee around the centre circle at Anfield with the message, ‘Unity is strength #BlackLivesMatter’.
Manchester United forward Rashford says society is “more divided than ever” in a powerful anti-racism message.
The 22-year-old said: “I know you guys haven’t heard from me in a few days. I’ve been trying to process what is going on in the world.
“At a time I’ve been asking people to come together, work together and be united, we appear to me more divided than ever. People are hurting and people need answers.
“Black lives matter. Black culture matters. Black communities matter. We matter.” 