Fire at the weekend gutted five shops and destroyed property and goods believed to worth millions of naira in Akure, Ondo State.
The incident occurred at Obanla area of the state capital a few metres from the popular Oja-Oba market. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who visited the scene yesterday, promised that his administration would embark on a total overhaul of the state Fire Service for effective service delivery.
One of the shop owners, Chukwuma Chinoso, explained that there was a power outage before the incident. Chinoso said none of the shops was selling gas or flammable commodities as speculated by some sympathisers.
According to him, an electrical spark could have been responsible for the fire outbreak. He said the traders called the fire service but they were replied with complaints of no water, fuel and other logistics.
Witnesses said the situation could have been salvaged if the men of the state Fire Service had arrived at the scene on time, although the fire station is close to the shops.
They argued that by the time the firemen arrived, the buildings had turned to debris, following hours of intense fire.
Another trader, who gave his name simply as Favour, said he could not believe that he watched his business burn to ruins. Favour, who said that he was called on phone late in the night that fire had engulfed the shop, disclosed that it was too late to bring goods out of the shop as the fire had already consumed virtually everything in the shop. Calling on the government to come to her rescue, another shop owner, who gave her name as Modupe, said she did not know where to start as her investment vanished with the inferno.
Modupe, a single mother, said she had been struggling to take care of her children with the little proceeds she was making from the shop.
According to her, she has been shattered as she does not know where to start from. Meanwhile, Akeredolu said that the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) would be mandated to assess the level of damage with a view to compensating the victims. 