T he management of Aston University, Birmingham in the United Kingdom has restated commitment to offer scholarships to Nigerian students aspiring to study in the university in the September admission.   The university, which is still accepting applications for September 2020 admission, the management said, is globally recognised for providing industry-focused learning experience and employability skills to students of all backgrounds across the world.    According to the institution’s Regional Manager for Africa, Mr. Babajide Ogundeji, other benefits of learning at Aston University include its Gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) won in 2017; first ranking in the UK for value-added by Guardian University Guide 2020; Aston Business School as one of the few Business Schools worldwide to be triple-accredited by AACSB, EQUIS and AMBA respectively; and it is ranked in the world among top 100 in Business and Management by the QS world ranking in 2020.  For September 2020 entry, Aston University, he pointed out, will offer between £3,000 and £8,000 in scholarships to international students, including Nigerians in recognition of excellence and outstanding academic achievement.   With the institution’s core value of providing students with the best learning experience, Ogundeji said that the university placed huge importance on equipping students with relevant employability skills.   Thus, he noted that “the university has a dedicated team working closely with the United Kingdom and international employers, as well as partner universities to source and promote placement opportunities to Aston students, and also organise employer events and recruitment fairs on campus towards ensuring employers-students relationship.   Ogundeji added: “Students can take up paid job placements of up to £15,000, which will thus avail them the opportunity to apply what they learnt in their courses in the real world, while acquiring valuable professional and paid experience.   “In many of the Masters courses, the students are allowed to take an extended work placement of up to 12 months with the Aston Global Advantage and choose to study abroad in Europe and beyond.   “Aston University has a longstanding reputation for training professionals in all sectors. We are known as an enterprising university and our undergraduate students work with real life projects and undertake placements in industry, the professions or the public sector, while our Postgraduate portfolio is designed in close partnership with business and industry in the UK and internationally, giving the students the ideal platform from which to build their future career.”   Prospective students from Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa, who are willing to apply for September 2020 session and need more information, Ogundeji added, are advised to visit Aston University’s official website.   