A s the world moves to a new normal way of doing things, many businesses, religious and faith-based organisations are learning and needing to move their activities online. This comes with a headache as how to project, disseminate, protect, and safeguard your activities over the Internet.  Safeguarding your activities and important information from corruption, compromise, or loss is however dependent on your data protection mechanisms. The importance of data protection increases as the amount of data created and stored continues to grow at unprecedented rates. Protecting data from compromise and ensuring data privacy are therefore key components of data protection.   The ability to move data in different ways is increasingly becoming a problem and a solution for data protection is gradually becoming a necessity. On the one hand, cloud-based computing makes it possible for customers to migrate data and applications between or among cloud service providers. On the other hand, it requires safeguards against data duplication. While cloud backup is increasingly gaining relevance, users are however left exposed to the prevalent dangers, some of which include:   •Cyberattacks resulting in stealing and destruction of information, infrastructure, etc;   •Insider threats leading to breach of confidential information;   •Government intrusion on individual and corporate privacy;   •Legal liability resulting from leaks;   •Lack of standardization or uniformity in cloud services.   Backing up information was hitherto basically to save storage space on a device, whilst protecting your information from loss of your device or destruction by accident. Today, backups are no longer a stand-alone function. Instead, they are being combined with other data protection functions to save storage space and lower costs.   Legal and Regulatory Framework For Data Protection and Control   Nigeria is yet to enact a comprehensive data privacy and protection legislation, but several sector-specific laws guiding privacy and data protection laws and regulations have evolved. These include:    Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999: Section 37 of which guarantees privacy protection to citizens in their homes, correspondence, telephone conversations and telegraphic communication. The Constitution, however, does not define the scope of “privacy” or contain detailed privacy provisions.   Child Rights Act 2003: Section 8 of the Act guarantees a child’s right to privacy subject to parent or guardian rights to exercise supervision and control of their child’s conduct. A few states in Nigeria have also enacted a Child Rights Law with a corresponding provision of the law.   Freedom of Information Act (FOI Act) 2011: Although the FOI Act seeks to liberalise access to information and data (private and public), Section 14 of the FOI Act provides that a public institution is obliged to deny an application for information that contains personal information unless the individual involved consents to the disclosure, or where such information is publicly available.   National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) Act 2007: The NIMC Act provides for the establishment of a national identity database of Nigerians by issuing a unique national identification numbers to citizens. Section 26 of the NIMC Act however provides that no person or corporate body shall have access to data or information contained in the Database with respect to a registered individual without authorization from the Commission. The exception to this non-disclosure of data is only in cases where the data is required for national security.   Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act, 2019: The FCCPA seeks to protect the interest of consumers and prevent cases of exploitation resulting from acts of market players. Section 34(6) of the Act requires the protection of business secrets of all parties involved in commission investigations.   In a related proviso, Section 33(2) requires commission hearings to take place in public, but the commission may, particularly to preserve business secrets, conduct hearings in camera.    Consumer Protection Framework 2016 (Framework): The Consumer Protection Framework 2016 was enacted pursuant to the Central Bank of Nigeria Act 2007. The Framework contains provisions that prohibit financial institutions from disclosing customers’ personal information. The Framework further places an obligation on financial institutions to put in place appropriate data protection measures and staff training programmes to prevent unauthorized access, alteration, disclosure, accidental loss or destruction of customer data. Customers data can however be released upon obtaining a written consent from the Consumer before disclosing such data to third parties or for promotional offers.   Cyber Crimes (Prohibition, Prevention) Act 2015: The Act provides a legal and regulatory framework that prohibits, prevents, detects, prosecutes, and punishes cybercrimes in Nigeria. The Act requires financial institutions to retain and protect data and criminalizes the interception of electronic communications.   The Personal Information and Data Protection Bill 2017: The Bill seeks to make provisions for the regulation of information relating to individuals. It seeks to establish rules to govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information in a manner that recognizes the right of privacy of individuals with respect to their personal information and the need of organisations to collect, use or disclose personal information for purposes that a reasonable person would consider appropriate in the circumstances.   Nigeria Data Protection Regulation 2019: The most comprehensive and recent law regulating data protection in Nigerian is the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Act, 2007. The agency was established as the national authority for planning, developing, and promoting the use of information technology in Nigeria. Pursuant to the powers conferred on the Agency by Section 32 of the Act, the Nigerian Data Protection Regulation (NDPR), 2019 was issued to regulate and control the use of data in Nigeria. The NDPR was made to safeguard the rights of natural persons to data privacy, foster safe conduct of transactions involving the exchange of personal data, prevent manipulation of personal data, and to ensure that Nigerian businesses remain competitive in international trade through the safeguards afforded by a just and equitable legal regulatory framework. In addition, the NDPR makes provision for data security, third party data processing contracts, rights of data subjects, implementation, and administration mechanisms.     