Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested a 32-year-old man, Boniface Oburuku, for stealing from an international guest.  The Head, Media and Publicity of EFCC, Dele Oyewale, said in a statement that Oburuku impersonated an officer of the Department of Stat Service (DSS) to access an event which had President Muhammadu Buhari in attendance to steal a handbag belonging to a female guest from the Republic of Mauritius.   Oyewale said the bag contained her two Samsung mobile phones, an international passport, United States Dollars, Nigerian and Mauritian currencies.   He said: “Oburuku committed the crime on June 11, 2019 at an event organised by the EFCC to mark the year’s National Democracy Day and Anti-Corruption Summit at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, which had in attendance, President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigerian security chiefs, respected citizens and global leaders.   “For over one year, the suspect has been on the commission’s watch list and was eventually arrested in Lagos a few days ago.”   According to him, Oburuku was tracked down, Counter-Terrorism and General Investigations Unit of the EFCC.   The unit team leader, according to Oyewale, said the commission swung into action through an intelligence on the suspect all over the country, which showed that he was constantly on the move, from Mpape area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to Jabi and later to Gwagwalada, all in the FCT.   The suspect finally settled in Lagos where he was arrested.  Oyewale said: “Investigations also revealed that to breach security at the day’s event, Oburuku dressed smartly in a black suit and claimed to be of the Department of State Service (DSS) and was allowed access into the venue by security agents on duty without presentation of an invite.  “While confessing to the crime, Oburuku apologised to President Buhari, the EFCC and his Mauritian victim. He called on others who are into fraudulent and criminal activities to turn a new leaf.”  The EFCC spokesman said the suspect would soon be arraigned. 