  U narguably, Akinwumi Adesina, the current President, African Development Bank (AfDB), is one Nigerian, who was not just thrown into the international scene to head the regional bank by his academic credentials, but more because of his past sterling and milestone performance and subsequent delivery as Nigeria’s Minister of Agriculture. To have done five years in an institution where his emergence as the president was highly contested and opposed, it would have been out of place to assume he would not have stepped on toes while putting things in the right perspective at the bank. The issue has not just been Adesina holding sway at the bank but the obvious achievements he has recorded at the regional financial institution since its establishment in 1964. Acrimony towards him climbing the exalted position of AfDB presidency had been brewing from the beginning as it only waited for now to exhale just to apply the brakes to his reelection bid.   Beyond the façade of ‘aggrieved’ workers coming out to register their unfounded workplace grievances, the temple of opposition to Adesina’s emergence had been mounted from the beginning. It is on record that during the process in 2015, many feathers were ruffled as different shareholder blocs, as usual, had their anointed candidates. The early conflict was between both the African shareholders, who had for long been split between Chad’s Bedoumra Kordjé and Zimbabwe’s Thomas Zondo Sakala, and the non-African shareholders, who had a preference for the candidacy of Cape Verde’s Cristina Duarte. Irrespective of the huge opposition faced by Adesina and possible subterranean misgivings by fifth columnists at the Addis Ababa headquarters of the bank, he was never distracted as his vision to take the bank to greater heights blossomed to excellence. For those who have come out in defense of the AfDB president, especially some former African leaders, their reasons have been clear-cut and to the point. Rather than just throw up emotions for another African child being tormented by super powers, they have, beyond expectation, x-rayed his achievements and put everything forward for everyone to see.   This is in addition to the fact that the Ethics Committee of the Board of Directors of AfDB had declared Adesina innocent of corruption allegations raised by some whistleblowers within the bank. Specifically, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who ordinarily would not dabble into such ‘internal’ crisis, has had cause to kick against the attempt by non-African shareholders, especially the United States, to, surreptitiously, take over control of the bank.   Adesina’s achievements are there for everyone to see and also verify. Among the lots, he had led the bank to achieve a historic general capital increase, raising the capital from $93 billion to $208 billion, an increase of $155 billion, being the highest in the history of the bank since its establishment in 1964.   The bank also successfully raised funds from donor countries of over $7 billion for the African Development Fund 15th replenishment for low-income countries, an increase of 35 per cent. Under his leadership, the bank launched the Africa Investment Forum (AIF) to mobilise massive flows of capital to Africa.  At the AIF launch in Johannesburg, South Africa, it secured $38.7 billion of investment interests in less than 72 hours. It went even further and secured $40.1 billion of investment interest in less than 72 hours, a feat Africa has never seen in its financial and investment interests. Since his coming onboard, the Bank has been effectively positioned as an effective global institution, ranked 4th globally in terms of transparency among 45 multilateral and bilateral institutions by Publish What You Fund, an outfit that consists of 19 developed economies.   Dr. Adesina led the Bank to successfully launch at the G7 Summit in Biarritz, France, the Affirmative Finance Action for Women (AFAWA) to mobilize $3 billion for women businesses and entrepreneurs in Africa, with strong support and resources from G7 leaders and nations. The bank has also substantially aligned its financing and operations to help accelerate Agenda 2063 and the High 5 agenda of the bank (Light Up and Power Africa; Feed Africa; Industrialize Africa; Integrate Africa; and Improve the Quality of Life of the People of Africa) are achieving good results.   Over the past four years, it is estimated that 18 million people were provided with access to electricity through “Light Up and Power Africa.” Another 141 million people gained access to improved agricultural technologies for food security through “Feed Africa.”   Thirteen million people benefited from access to finance from private sector investment projects, through “Industrialize Africa,” 101 million people benefitted from access to better transport through “integrate Africa” 60 million people benefit from improved access to water and sanitation under “Improved quality of life for the people of Africa.” In summary, in less than five years under Adesina’s leadership, the bank’s investments have benefitted and impacted a total of 333 million Africans.   These achievements are commendable and the bank has been placed in a strategic position to fast track Africa’s development.   Not done, the bank has continued to maintain its Triple As (AAA) rating by all global rating agencies over the past five years. As Africa faces COVID-19, Dr. Adesina again took bold measures to ensure the bank can respond proactively to support African countries by getting its board of directors to approve a $10 billion crisis response facility to support African countries.  In addition, the bank successfully launched a $3 billion “Fight COVID-19” social impact bond on the international capital market, secured at 0.75 per cent interest rate. The social bond is the largest US dollar denominated bond ever in world history. The bond is now listed on the London Stock Exchange where it has been oversubscribed at $4.6 billion.   Effectively, Adesina, despite the pressure from the United States on the bank’s board to ‘deal’ with him, has continued to garner support from a wide range of leaders including President Muhammadu Buhari, who, last week, offered to stand by him. We are particularly worried that despite given a clean bill of health by the bank’s ethics committee, there is still pressure on the board to go ahead with the probe.   While we are not advocating that the allegations be swept under the carpet, we, however, pray that this should not be another face of neo-colonialism being championed by the United States in connivance with some fifth columnists, who prefer the lacklustre performance of the bank pre-Adesina.