As protests sparked by the death of George Floyd raged outside the White House on Friday night, Donald Trump was taken into a special secure bunker. Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday, has sparked unrest and protests in dozens of cities across the US, including Washington DC. Demonstrators have gathered outside the White House since Friday night, with clashes erupting intermittently outside the very perimeter of the White House, reports The Guardian. As protesters converged on the White House on Friday, the New York Times reports, “Secret Service agents abruptly rushed the… The majority of teams in the bottom half of the Premier League want relegation scrapped if the 2019/20 season has to be curtailed amid the coronavirus pandemic. The Premier League season is due to restart on 17 June behind closed doors, with all 20 clubs set to vote on what to do if the season has to be curtailed at a shareholders’ meeting on Thursday, reports Sky Sports. Top-flight officials are recommending a simple points-per-game formula to work out league placings if the season has to be cancelled, for example, if… Pastor Enoch Adeboye, General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), has condemned the rape and murder of a University of Benin student, Vera Uwaila Omozuwa, in one of the branches of his church. Omozuwa’s attackers reportedly smashed her head with a fire extinguisher and left her unconscious around the Ikpoba Hill area of Benin City, the state capital, about four days ago. Despite being rushed to the intensive care unit of a hospital, Omozuwa couldn’t make it as she succumbed to the injuries sustained during the… A tanker truck drove into a throng of protesters on a closed interstate near Minneapolis on Sunday, with the driver pulled from his rig and beaten, as major U.S. cities imposed curfews in fear of another night of demonstrations against police brutality descending into violence. It did not appear that any marchers were struck by the truck as it moved through the crowd on the westbound lanes of Interstate 35, honking. The freeway was closed to traffic at the time, reports France24. A Reuters witness said the truck driver… COVID-19 cases in Nigeria increased beyond 10,000 mark on Sunday with 307 new cases reported by the country. The increase has continued despite intensified efforts by authorities to flatten the curve of the pandemic. The new cases announced by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCC) takes infections in Africa’s most populous nation to 10,162, out of which 3007 have been discharged with 287 losing their lives. Data from the NCDC showed that the cases were spread across 14 states and the FCT, with Lagos accounting for the highest… ‘Autonomy’ll guarantee judiciary’s independence’     Lawyers at the weekend hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for signing an Executive Order aimed at ceding financial autonomy to States’ Legislature and the Judiciary. This, they believe would free the two arms of government from the grip of state governors. AKEEM NAFIU reports       L awyers were unanimous President Muhammadu Buhari deserved an applause following the long overdue financial autonomy he granted to States’ legislature and the judiciary.   They said the President’s endorsement of an Executive Order in pursuant of attaining… Mirian Obioma Okoro attended Madonna University, Okija in Anambra State where she obtained her LL.B. She was called to Bar in 2015. Okoro shares her foray into the law profession with JOHN CHIKEZIE     Background     She is from Ebonyi State. Mirian Obioma Okoro attended Madonna University Okija in Anambra State where she obtained her LL.B in 2014. Okoro was called to the Bar in 2015 after a successful Bar exams at the Nigerian Law school, Yenagoa.     She said: “Currently, I am the National Coordinator of… J ustice Sule Hassan of a Federal High Court in Lagos has upheld the power of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to freeze any account being investigated for alleged fraudulent activity.     The judge’s decision followed striking out of a suit filed by a Professor at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Anthony Elujoba, against the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), challenging the directive of the apex bank to a new generation bank to freeze his account whilst under investigation for an alleged fraud.   In his… O gun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has expressed reservation over the strike embarked upon by some doctors employed by the state government.     Abiodun, who described the doctors as “irresponsible” for requesting wage increase amid the coronavirus pandemic, said his administration would not succumb to blackmail from any quarters.     “I find it difficult that at this time when we are all putting our thinking caps on, trying to figure out what to do and how to do, any set of people would be irresponsibly… T he  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won all the local government elections  conducted in Benue and Cross River State on Saturday.       In Cross River, the election was the first since Governor Ben Ayade became governor in 2015.   The All Progressives Congress (APC) which fielded just nine chairmanship candidates out of the 18 local governments in the state neither secured any chairmanship seat nor succeeded in having a councillorship seat in an election which was simply one-sided.     Announcing the results at the Cross River State…