Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen marked his first training at his new Serie A side Napoli with a goal to the delight of the fans and his coach, Gattuso.  The 21-year-old forward reported to the club last weekend and he was involved in his first training session of the 2020-2021 campaign with the rest of the team.  Osimhen who met his new team-mates on Sunday arrived at the club’s training base in San Paolo looking lively and ready to go. Meanwhile, the former Lille forward was among the goal scorers yesterday as he scored his first goal in front of excited Gil Azzurri faithful at the Patini stadium.  Osimhen who is Napoli’s most expensive transfer converted a low cross from Kevin Malcuit cross from close range.  After the training session, he took to his social media handle to express his delight. “Good training session with the lads,” Osimhen tweeted.  Osimhen and his teammates will spend the next 11 days at their training base in Castel di Sangro and they are expected to take part in a three- team-friendly, before their first real friendly game against Teramo on Friday, September 4   William D'Avila, the agent of Napoli forward Victor Osimhen, has admitted that the Nigerian has set sights on winning the Capocannoniere award for the highest goalscorer in Serie A. The 21-year-old arrived at the Campania capital from Lille for €50 million after long negotiations which saw him change agents. The… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" Lille seem to have lost hope of retaining the star striker Victor Osimhen for next season as big clubs in Europe circle around the Super Eagles star. Top European sides including English Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur are among clubs interested in signing Osimhen but face competition from Italian clubs… June 20, 2020 In "Sports" ...as CAF tips striker to shine for years Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr has urged his striker Victor Osimhen to demand from Napoli in clear terms the specific role they want him to play in the proposed project of Italian side before he signs a contract. The former Wolfsburg player… July 3, 2020 In "Sports"