 Lionel Messi is expected to send a new burofax to Barcelona confirming he will not be attending pre-season training, as he begins all-out warfare with the club.
According to RAC1 and El Periodico, Messi has realised Barca won’t accept negotiations, so is going all-out to break away from the club where he spent his entire career.
It is an unfortunate ending to this decades-long relationship, but if Messi is able to ascertain the clause in his contract allows him to leave for free, then Juventus, Inter, PSG, and favourites Manchester City are in the running.
He had been expected Sunday for medical tests, the precursor to pre-season training, but it’s reported he will now send a burofax warning he will not becoming.
The legal battle is now inevitable, as Messi had tried to meet with President Josep Maria Bartomeu for talks to work out a solution to the impasse.
The response he received was that Barcelona were only interested in talking to him about extending his current contract and nothing else.
With both parties taking a hard-line stance, the situation is getting increasingly ugly.
Manchester City remain the absolute favourites due to Pep Guardiola’s presence, and indeed the coach was spotted in Barcelona this weekend.
However, L’Equipe and AS both state that Juventus are very much in the running with their dream of uniting Messi with Cristiano Ronaldo.
Inter seem to be focusing on other targets for now, while Paris Saint-Germain are another candidate.  Six-time Ballon d’Or winner Lionel Messi has dropped a massive bombshell, reportedly telling Barcelona that he wants to leave the club and terminate his contract.   Messi, 33, has spent his entire professional career with Barcelona, scoring over 600 goals and winning ten league titles and four Champions Leagues.  … August 26, 2020 In "Sports" Forward Lionel Messi has asked to leave Spanish giants Barcelona this summer. The Argentina international, 33, sent a fax to the club on Tuesday saying he wishes to exercise a clause in his contract, allowing him to leave for free with immediate effect. Barca were beaten 8-2 by Bayern Munich in… August 25, 2020 In "Sports" ...as Di Maria also lobbies Argentine teammate Paris Saint-Germain star Neymar talked to Lionel Messi over the phone on Thursday about the possibility of the Barcelona captain joining the French club, sources have told ESPN. Messi's future has become a considerable point of discussion after he shocked Barcelona by telling them he wants to leave on… August 28, 2020 In "Sports"