…Sanwo-Olu repays loan  A 45-year-old man, Adeyinka Abiodun, has been prevented from committing suicide on the Third Mainland Bridge over debt. The victim, it was learnt, wanted to kill himself over a N500,000 loan he took from a micro-finance bank to boost his wine business, which he was unable to repay.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Bala Elkana, said on July 31, about 1:50p.m. police operatives deployed to the Third Mainland Bridge intercepted the victim, who left his house on Abaranje Road, Ikotun and attempted to jump into the lagoon. Elkana, however, disclosed that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had repaid the loan.  “He was, however, rescued and taken to Bariga Police Station for questioning and debriefing. While at the station, he said in March, 2020, he procured a loan of N390,000 with monthly repayment plan for six months and accrued interest of N142,287:25 from a micro-finance bank on Lagos Island.  “The victim said he collected the loan with intent to upgrade his wine retail business, but the business failed and the money lost.  The victim holds a BSc in Physics and a MSc in Business Administration. He is married and has two children. He is currently attending medical and counselling sessions.  “The micro-finance bank has been contacted and they confirmed the loan, but the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, moved with compassion, came to the rescue by repaying the loan.  Governor of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has settled a N500,000 loan for Adeyinka Abiodun, a resident who wanted to commit suicide by jumping into the lagoon. Abiodun was stopped on Friday by the police around the Third Mainland Bridge as he attempted to kill himself. Bala Elkana, Lagos Police Spokesperson, in… August 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Hoteliers in Lagos State under the umbrella of Hotel Owners and Managers Association of Lagos (HOMAL) have commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for making available N1 billion loan facility to support the stabilisation of the sector following the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement signed by the President of the… August 8, 2020 In "News" ...as companies lament unfriendly business enviroment Muritala Ayinla The Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday said that his administration has earmarked N1 billion grant to the hospitality industry in the state as part of COVID-19 bailout for the sector. This was even as business owners and representatives lamented… July 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"