 The world’s fastest man Usain Bolt is in quarantine at his home in Jamaica after testing positive for COVID-19 – days after celebrating his 34th birthday party with other sports stars.
The country’s health minister, Dr Christopher Tufton, confirmed Bolt had coronavirus and had been formally notified of the test result, the Jamaica Observer reported.
The retired sprinter and eight-time Olympic gold medallist revealed he was self-isolating in a video which he posted on his official Instagram and Twitter accounts, reports Sky News.
“Just waking up, and like everybody else, I checked social media which is saying I am confirmed to have COVID-19,” said Bolt.
“I am trying to be responsible so I am going to stay in and stay here for my friends.”
The Jamaican world record holder, who retired after the World Athletics Championships in 2017 and is widely regarded as the best sprinter of all time, said he had no symptoms.
“I am going to quarantine myself and wait on the confirmation to see what is the protocol and how I should go about quarantining myself.”
He added he had contacted friends and told them to self-isolate “just to be safe” and “to take it easy”.
The video was posted with the words “stay safe my ppl”, along with a prayer emoji.
Bolt said he took the test on Saturday, the day after the party.
“Best birthday ever,” he wrote on Instagram after the celebrations, posting a photo of himself holding his daughter Olympia, who was born in May.
Videos from the party showed guests dancing close together without masks and appearing to ignore social distancing.
Fans were quick to offer their well-wishes and advice to the star, with one replying: “Please get better my friend.”
Another wrote: “Drink up your ginger tea non stop.”
Meanwhile, Manchester City star Raheem Sterling will be tested for coronavirus before he is allowed to join England’s bio-secure bubble at St George’s Park in Staffordshire next week after attending Bolt’s party on Friday.
Gareth Southgate will name his first England squad in more than nine months on Tuesday, with the potential inclusion of Sterling and Manchester United’s Harry Maguire, who is currently in Greece following his arrest last week over an alleged fight on the island of Mykonos.  ...as Sterling to face test before joining England camp Usain Bolt says he is self-isolating as a precaution as he waits for the result of a COVID-19 test. The 34-year-old retired sprinter, who won gold in the 100 and 200 metres at the last three Olympics, posted a video on his… August 25, 2020 In "Sports" Usain Bolt has tested positive for coronavirus just days after partying with guests including England star Raheem Sterling for his 34th birthday in Jamaica, according to reports in the country.   Nationwide90fm, a radio station in Jamaica, reports that the greatest sprinter of all time has contracted the disease and… August 25, 2020 In "Sports" Charles Adebayo Former sprinter, Usain Bolt has tested positive for coronavirus just days after partying with guests, including England star Raheem Sterling, for his 34th birthday in Jamaica, according to reports in the country. Nationwide90fm, a radio station in Jamaica, reports that the greatest sprinter of all time has… August 24, 2020 In "Sports"