 The Kano State Police Command, on Thursday, rescued a 55-year-old man allegedly confined for 30 years in a solitary room by his relatives.
The victim, alleged to be mentally challenged, was found tied to a log in a room with no window.
He is the third person to be rescued by the police from unlawful confinement within a week in the state.
Abdullahi Kiyawa, Spokesman of the Police Command, confirmed the incident to journalists.
Kiyawa said the rescued victim has been admitted into a medical facility in Rogo Local Government Area of the state.
According to him, the Police Command has already begun an investigation into the matter.
The development comes three days after the police rescued a 33-year-old man allegedly held captive by his father for 15 years.
Ibrahim Lawan, the rescued man, had been confined to a room for 15 years and was rescued at Sheka Unguwar Fulani area of Kano.
On August 13, Ahmad Aliyu, a 32-year-old man, was also rescued by the police after being locked up in a room by his father and stepmother for seven years.
Aliyu, a resident of Farawa Babban Layi in Mariri quarters of Kumbotso Local Government Area in Kano, was said to have been chained and caged after he was accused of drug abuse by his parents.  Residents of Mariri, a suburb of Kano metropolis were bewildered when police recovered the decomposing corpse of a middleaged woman locked up in a room by her husband as punishment for alleged misbehavior. Police sources confirmed that the woman died three days after her husband confined her to the room.… August 23, 2020 In "News" Police in Kano State have rescued a 32-year-old Kano man, Ahmad Aliyu who had been locked in a room by his father and stepmother for over seven years, Aliyu, a resident of Farawa Babban Layi in Mariri Quarters of Kumbotso Local Government Area in Kano metropolis was rescued by police… August 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Muhammad Kabir, Kano Following a sting operation, the Police in Kano have been able to rescue another man, Ibrahim Lawan, who had been confined to a room for 15 years. Lawan, 35, was alleged to have been detained by his biological father, Mallam Lawan at Sheka Unguwar Fulani adjacent… August 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"