The member representing Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency of Abia State in the House of Representatives, Hon. Chinedu Ogah, has called on university lecturers, under the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to key into the Federal Government Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) to enable them to receive their salaries.  He said that the National President of ASUU, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, who is a staff of a state university and who is receiving his salaries and all entitlements every month, should not be allowed to deceive other lecturers in federal universities.  The call was coming on the heels of the refusal of ASUU to key in to the IPPIS, alleging that the policy introduced by the government for all categories of workers in the federal establishments would infringe on the freedom of the university system.  ASUU, before the lockdown that led to the closure of all institutions nationwide in March, had declared indefinite nationwide strike to protest the stoppage of their salaries and the directive by the government to compel its members to enroll for IPPIS.  The union had also raised the non-implementation of outstanding agreement it entered into with the Federal Government since February 2019, and demanded that all aspects of the agreement not implemented should be addressed accordingly.  The union, as a way forward, had developed an alternative salary payment system for universities, tagged the University Transparency and Accountability System (UTAS) in place of the IPISS.  Part of ASUU’s demands is a phased release of N1.1 trillion for revitalisation of universities and payment of N220 billion arrears of Earned Academic Allowances to its members said to have accumulated from the 2009 agreement with the Federal Government. But, Ogah, while reacting to ASUU’s strike urged the union to key into the IPISS for their salaries to be paid.  The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has warned of imminent crisis in the nation’s universities if the six months’ salary arrears owed members in two universities is not paid immediately.     In a release issued yesterday by Comrades Chinyere Echendu and Francis Nkaa, Chairperson and Secretary respectively of… August 16, 2020 In "News" The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has advanced its opposition to the Federal Government’s IPPIS payment system policy in the Ivory Towers, saying that arrangement was underway to make initial presentation of its University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS).   President of the Union, Professor Biodun Ogunyemi, stated this… August 11, 2020 In "News" The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has explained that Nigerian universities may not be reopened even if the federal government orders the resumption of all schools amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The president of the union, Biodun Ogunyemi, in a telephone interview with online news portal, PREMIUM TIMES, on Sunday, also… July 19, 2020 In "Education"