 Big Brother Naija Lockdown housemate, Lucy Essien, simply known as Lucy, refused to have her bath after last night’s Saturday night.
This, according to her was for “safeness” as she believed having her bath might make fellow housemate, Praise have sex with her.
Lucy and Praise are rather becoming too close of late, a development that has stirred reactions among viewers of the reality show.
The 30-year-old Lucy, who is undoubtedly one of the liveliest housemates in the Lockdown house, now sleeps in Praise’s bed in recent nights.
Lucy had recently admitted that she is attracted to Praise.
Lucy made this known during her diary session with Tolanibaj who stood in as Big Brother.
In most parts of last night’s party, both housemates were on each other and after the party Lucy was captured sitting on Praise’s laps as they chatted.
Lucy asked Praise, “You think I’m smelling?”
He said “Go and shower though” But Lucy responded, “Nope. For safeness.” Shocked by her response, Praise added, “Wait wait wait, you think if you shower I’ll [we’ll have sex]?”  Praise Nelson, a former housemate of the ongoing Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) reality TV show, has dismissed a claim by Brighto, an excolleague at the ‘Lockdown’ house, that his fiancée is over 60 years. Brighto, whose real name is Bright Ezekiel Osemudiame, had during a conversation with Kiddwaya, made several… August 28, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The atmosphere in the Big Brother Naija, BBNaija 2020 house appears to be getting tense every day. Just on Tuesday night, Lucy and Erica engaged in a heated argument which had both housemates hurling insults at each other. The tension has continued as Vee picked on Dorathy for disrespecting housemates including… August 12, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Big Brother Naija Lockdown housemate, Nengi, has noted that condoms in the house are reducing. Nengi made the observation while having a breakfast with her supposed boyfriend, Ozo. She told Ozo, “Condoms have reduced.” "How many have you used,” she said jokingly. In response, Ozo said “I wish I… August 13, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"