 *Wants media to refrain from conjectures, speculations Wole Shadare Quorum Aviation Limited, which Bell 206 helicopter crashed between two buildings in Ikeja en-route to Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos last Friday, has denounced insinuations and reports that it operated an airplane that was not airworthy.
The airline, in a statement signed by its management and made available to New Telegraph, said the company has all the requisite certificates and approvals obtained through a very rigorous process, including “inter alia an Air Operator Certificate (AOC), Certificate of Airworthiness (COA) and Insurance. All our certificates and approvals are current and valid as issued by the authorities following due process”.
A letter sighted by our correspondent, signed by Director, Operations and Training, NCAA, Capt. Abdullahi Maikano Sidi and dated August 2, 2020 shows that the airline’s AOC is valid till November 20, 2020.
The firm further stated that it was compelled to make the clarifications regarding the unfortunate helicopter accident which claimed the lives of three of its staff that were onboard the aircraft because of conflicting media reports concerning the ill-fated aircraft.
“For the avoidance of doubt, Quorum Aviation Limited is a responsible corporate entity that adheres to and complies with all the rules and regulations pertaining to the aviation industry as laid-out in the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (NCAR),” the airline stated.
“The company has all the requisite certificates and approvals obtained through a very rigorous process, including inter alia an Air Operator Certificate (AOC), Certificate of Airworthiness (COA) and Insurance. All our certificates and approvals are current and valid as issued by the authorities following due process.”
It craved the indulgence of the media to refrain from conjecture and speculations during the difficult time the carrier is going through.
The company pleaded to wait for the outcome of the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) investigation into the cause of the mishap.
“Our thoughts and prayers remains with the families of the departed,” it added.   •Buhari, Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu, Obaseki condole with victims Tragedy struck yesterday on Salvation Road, Opebi, Ikeja area of Lagos State, when a helicopter crashed into a private residence, killing three people on board. The last occupant who was severely injured later died at the hospital. For few minutes, residents, who witnessed… August 29, 2020 In "News" *Tenders apology to Jet Support Service over regulatory error Wole Shadare   Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has suspended the operations Specs Part G of the Air Operator’s Certificate of Sky Power Express Airways Nig Limited due to non compliance and or violations of the provision of NCARS Part 9.2.3.4(b).… July 7, 2020 In "Aviation" •Jed Air, Dana, Azman, First Nation, Top Brass, Quorum, others submit list     A mid harsh economic realities occasioned by the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, 18 Nigerian airlines have submitted their Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) funds’ application documents to their umbrella body, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON). Some… July 12, 2020 In "News"