 Britain’s government will urge people to return to offices and other workplaces where it is safe to do so to help the economy recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, Transport Minister Grant Shapps said on Friday.
“Our central message is pretty straightforward: we are saying to people it is now safe to return to work,” he told LBC radio.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson will launch a campaign extolling the virtues of returning to the office and providing reassurance that it is a safe place, while a new online tool will help people avoid the most crowded trains and buses, a report in the Telegraph newspaper said.
According to data from the Centre for Cities, only 17% of workers in British cities had returned to their workplaces by early August, underscoring the challenge facing Johnson in steering the country away from its coronavirus shutdown, reports Reuters.
The data, based on mobile phone signals, showed no increase in the footfall of workers going to city centres between late June and the week starting August 3.
Last month, Johnson encouraged people working from home to get back to their workplaces to help the economy recover from its 20% contraction in the April-June period, the largest fall among big developed economies.  Following the gradual easing of the lockdown earlier imposed to curtail the spread of  coronavirus,  the Federal Government has been grappling with the challenges of managing governments business in a safe environment. CALEB ONWE reports     W hen the lockdown was relaxed and certain categories of workers asked to… June 30, 2020 In "News" As medical experts forecast, COVID-19, now a pandemic, will downgrade to endemism and over time, a long time, assaulted by the vaccine which the world awaits with bated breath, will fade into the background as a major health issue. Mutant strains are said to be in the works and the… July 27, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" *To withhold passports of persons arriving from abroad as airports open Nigeria has said it would enforce the principle of reciprocity in granting permission to airlines to resume operations in the country as it opens its airspace. What it means is that only airlines from countries that allow flights from… August 20, 2020 In "Aviation"