 Five MLS matches were postponed on Wednesday night as players made a collective statement against racial injustice.
The action came after all three NBA playoff games were called off in a protest over the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Wisconsin on Sunday night, reports the Associated Press.
Players from games between Atlanta United and David Beckham’s Inter Miami, FC Dallas and Colorado, Portland and San Jose, Real Salt Lake and LAFC, and the LA Galaxy and Seattle all decided not to play in solidarity.
The lone match played was between Orlando City and Nashville SC, where Orlando won 3-1.
Colorado forward Kei Kamara posted on social media: “We made a decision together as players and staffs to not play our game tonight because theres more happening in our country to distract our minds to soccer. This is the first time I can agree to the saying. Its just a game.”
Atlanta United released a statement before its scheduled game against Inter Miami in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. After a group discussion, the players all gathered on the field before the game, arm in arm.
“We stand in solidarity with the Black community, with our players, our city and our fans in the fight against injustice,” the statement said. “We must use our voices to be the change.”
The Timbers similarly released a statement that said: “The Portland Timbers stand in support of our players and their decision not to play tonight. Racial injustice and police brutality against black people in our country must end now.”
After his team’s 3-1 victory over Nashville, Orlando City midfielder Nani said he was not aware until after the game that players had boycotted the other games. Nani was the only Orlando player to kneel for the anthem before the game.
“We didn’t know. We understand and we respect what’s going on and what the other teams did,” Nani said. “This is a situation we must stick together from today to try to do our best to see what we can help and what we can support.”
Sounders defender Kelvin Leerdam said the players wanted to use their platform. “As a group, we decided that were part of the world and well let everybody see that the things that happen around us, we arent blind to it,” Leerdam said. “Thats why we took a stand to not play today.”
Earlier in the day, Major League Soccer issued a statement about the shooting in Kenosha.
“MLS unequivocally condemns racism and has always stood for equality, but we need to do more to take tangible steps to impact change. We will continue to work with our players, our clubs and the broader soccer community to harness our collective power to fight for equality and social justice.”
Blake was shot multiple times by police about 40 miles south of Milwaukee. The Blake family attorney said he as paralyzed and it would take a miracle for him to walk again.
The shooting of the 29-year-old was captured on cellphone video.  The NBA postponed all three scheduled playoff games on Wednesday after Milwaukee Bucks players boycotted Game 5 of their series against the Orlando Magic in protest over the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Wisconsin. Blake, a black man who was shot seven times in the back by police… August 26, 2020 In "Sports" Japanese tennis star Naomi Osaka has pulled out of a major tennis tournament in New York in a protest over the police shooting of Jacob Blake. "As a black woman I feel as though there are much more important matters at hand that need immediate attention, rather than watching… August 27, 2020 In "Sports" Anger over the shooting of a Black man by police spilled into the streets of Kenosha for a second night Monday, with police again firing teargas at hundreds of protesters who defied a curfew, threw bottles and shot fireworks at law enforcement guarding the courthouse. The south-eastern Wisconsin city became… August 25, 2020 In "News"