  Manchester City’s Champions League ambitions are in ruins once more after Lyon shocked Pep Guardiola’s side in the quarter-final in Lisbon.
City started as firm favourites but came out second best against a fiercely determined Lyon in a game that swung on controversy and uncharacteristic errors in the closing stages.
Lyon went ahead in the 24th minute with Maxwel Cornet’s smart finish but City, lifeless as Guardiola chose to play a three-man central defence, looked to have been revived by Kevin de Bruyne’s precise strike from Raheem Sterling’s pass after 69 minutes, reports the BBC.
Former Celtic striker Moussa Dembele, on as a substitute, restored Lyon’s lead in contentious circumstances 11 minutes from time, the video assistant referee ignoring what appeared to be an obvious foul by the goalscorer before he ran on to beat Ederson.
City pressed for the equaliser but Sterling was guilty of an atrocious miss, somehow sending his finish over the top of an open goal from Gabriel Jesus’ pass.
It proved to be hugely expensive as seconds later Lyon set up a semi-final meeting with Bayern Munich when Dembele scored his second after Ederson fumbled a shot from Houssem Aouar’s routine shot. Guardiola must take responsibility Guardiola has rightly been showered in plaudits for the wonderful football and success he has brought to Manchester City – but his biggest target remains elusive and this was a miserable night for the manager.
Guardiola, who has been accused of over-thinking his approach in the Champions League before, adopted a three-man central defensive system and chose to leave many of City’s creators and manipulators on the bench.
Lyon deserved respect after eliminating Juventus but this was a ploy that took it too far and resulted in a stuttering City lacking urgency and creativity.
He eventually introduced Riyad Mahrez after the break to some effect but Lyon were offered hope and encouragement by Guardiola’s approach and showed magnificent grit and resilience to secure the win.
City will rightly claim an injustice over the VAR decision that did not penalise what appeared to be a foul on Aymeric Laporte by Dembele but the team defending for the second goal was horrific, with every City player bar keeper Ederson in the Lyon half when the goal was created when the game was finely balanced at 1-1.
City and Guardiola have suffered Champions League disappointment before but this may hurt more than any other – and make no mistake, the much-feted Catalan must take his full share of responsibility for a flawed game plan. Lyon deserve credit Lyon’s celebrations were wild at the final whistle – and who can blame them after a magnificent victory against many experts’ favourites after previously knocking out Juventus despite another stellar contribution from Cristiano Ronaldo?
The French side dug deep, rode their luck at the right times, especially with Sterling’s ghastly miss, and when offered the opportunity put City away.
Dembele showed the poacher’s instinct that made him so highly prized at Celtic and has made him a success in France to score the two goals that saw off City.
Bayern Munich will be hot favourites after their astonishing 8-2 demolition of Barcelona but this revamped knockout format has already produced its share of surprises and Lyon have shown they must not be written off.  Manchester City's Champions League dream is over for another year after a late double from Moussa Dembele sent Lyon to the semi-finals. Lyon, who finished seventh in Ligue 1, will face Bayern Munich on Wednesday, reports the BBC. They led through Maxwel Cornet's 20-yard curling effort but Kevin de… August 15, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester City reached the Champions League quarter-finals after knocking out record 13-time winners Real Madrid. Leading 2-1 from the first leg, City extended their aggregate lead through Raheem Sterling's close-range finish after Raphael Varane's mistake, reports the BBC. Karim Benzema equalised on the night with a header but Brazil forward Gabriel… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester City reached the Champions League quarter-finals after knocking out record 13-time winners Real Madrid. Leading 2-1 from the first leg, City extended their aggregate lead through Raheem Sterling's close-range finish after Raphael Varane's mistake, reports the BBC. Karim Benzema equalised on the night with a header but Brazil forward Gabriel… August 7, 2020 In "Sports"