 Harry Maguire’s legal team have asked a Greek court to postpone his trial over an alleged altercation with a police officer – claiming they have not had enough time to prepare.
The Manchester United footballer’s lawyer, Alexis Anagnostakis, said the list of charges was finalised on Monday, so he only received a hard copy of the file this morning – two hours before the trial, reports Sky News.
He did not even have the time to discuss the charges in depth with his client, he said.
Maguire, who was not present in court, pleaded not guilty, denying charges of aggravated assault and attempted bribery of an official.
The Manchester United captain was released from police custody on Thursday after he was arrested during a holiday with family and friends on the Greek island of Mykonos.
Police said there had been an altercation and an exchange of words with an officer who tried to break up a fight.
As coronavirus restrictions around the world made many holiday destinations impossible to visit, Premier League footballers headed to Mykonos.
Maguire spent time on the island with his Manchester United team-mates Marcus Rashford and Brandon Williams.
Leicester forward Jamie Vardy, Liverpool’s Trent Alexander-Arnold and Tottenham’s Dele Alli are among the others who have spent their post-season holiday in Mykonos.  Manchester United's Harry Maguire has been released from prison in Greece after pleading not guilty in court over aggravated assault charges.   The 27-year-old was alleged to have been involved in a fight outside a bar on Thursday night while on holiday on the Greek island of Mykonos with family… August 23, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United's Harry Maguire has been released from prison in Greece after pleading not guilty in court over aggravated assault charges. The 27-year-old was alleged to have been involved in a fight outside a bar on Thursday night while on holiday on the Greek island of Mykonos with family and… August 22, 2020 In "Sports" Justice Hakeem Oshodi of an Ikeja High Court, Lagos yesterday ruled that the co-defendants of an alleged kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike (aka Evans), must answer to the criminal charges of kidnapping brought against them. Evans is standing trial alongside Uche Amadi, Ogechi Uchechukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba,… August 15, 2020 In "News"