Ex-international, Finidi George, has bemoaned the inability of Super Eagles players to play for top clubs in Europe as they continue to miss out in Champions League showpiece.  The retired winger alongside another Nigeria, Nwankwo Kanu, were part of the Ajax team that won the UEFA Champions League in 1995 before getting to the final a year later.  Apart from Mikel Obi, who won the championship with Chelsea, Nigeria players have not had it good in the European topmost competition. Speaking on a radio programme monitored in Lagos, the former Real Betis star said it was difficult for Nigerian players to give what they don’t have.  “Our players are playing in lower divisions, you don’t expect them to give what they don’t have,” he said. “Few of our players are playing in the top leagues in Europe, even at that which of the clubs, most of them are average clubs.  “In our days, you can see where most of us are playing for which resulted in great performance for the national team.” Speaking further, he applauded Bayern Munich for winning the 2020 Champions League after defeating PSG 1-0 in the final played on Sunday.  According to him, it’s dif-ficult to find fault in the Bayern team as they have a blend of exciting youngsters and experienced players in the team.   Former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ndubuisi Egbo, became the first Nigerian and African coach to win a league title in Europe after leading KF Tirana to the Albanian top division title. Speaking during an interview on a sports WhatsApp group, NSM Rebranded, and monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, the former Julius Berger… July 25, 2020 In "Sports" Ikenna Hillary was part of the first Nigerian team that qualified for the African Nations Championships (CHAN) in 2014 after missing out of the previous two editions. The Sunshine Stars of Akure midfielder told CHARLES OGUNDIYA that Nigeria players who are playing outside the country find it difficult to return… August 15, 2020 In "Sports" T wo African players – Mohammed Salah of Egypt and Sadio Mane of Egypt – won the English Premier League title with Liverpool a few days ago and this feat has placed them in forefront in the race for the African Footballer of the Year for 2020.     We… June 1, 2020 In "Editorial"