Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to sack the management of Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) for recent boat accidents on the state waterways.  The party, in a statement issued yesterday by its state spokesman, Taofik Gani, also asked the governor to declare Lagos waterways unsafe for public transportation.  According to the PDP, more than 50 people have been killed in several boat accidents on Lagos waterways in the last 30 days. The party, which condoled with families of the victims, also demanded adequate compensation from the state for their families.  “We demand the sack of the LASWA general manager, the overhaul of the agency, compensation for victims, prosecution of erring officials, and operators. “Facts now reveal that over 50 lives have actually been lost, with the last 17 victims being in the last 10 days.  “Therefore, with the increase in deaths on the Lagos waterways, a responsible government ought to have overhauled the management of the LASWA,” the party said.  •LASG to go tough on ferry operators, insists on night travel restrictions     T ragedy struck in Ebute Ero axis of Lagos as a commercial passenger boat capsized leaving five passengers dead, 16 injured and others missing.   Although the exact number of the missing passengers couldn't be ascertained… July 5, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine" Muritala Ayinla Tragedy struck in the Ebute Ero axis of Lagos on Friday night when a commercial passenger boat capsized leaving four passengers dead, 10 injured and others missing. Although the exact number of the missing passengers couldn't be ascertained since some of the injured victims were still unconscious… July 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" No fewer than 10 persons have been confirmed dead and four others missing after a commercial boat with 19 persons on board capsized in Apapa Local Government axis of Lagos State. The tragic incident occurred on Wednesday but was made known through Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) in a statement… July 31, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"