 Tony Anichebe, Uyo The Akwa Ibom State Police Command has received a new Commissioner of Police. He is CP Amiengheme Andrew.
The new CP took over from his predecessor, CP. Imohimi Edgal as the 30th Commissioner of Police deployed to the state.
CP Andrew, who addressed the press at the Police Headquarters, Ikot Akpan Abia,  Uyo, after inspecting a guard mounted in his honour on Monday, declared zero tolerance to child abuse, rape and all other forms of criminal activities in the state.
Dwelling further on the issue of rape and child abuse, CP Andrew vowed to engage relevant laws to ensure that defaulters, however highly placed the suspect may be,  would be made to face the wrath of the law.
“We will explore new security measures to combat crime and to ensure that there would be no hiding place for criminals in the state. I will also bring my wealth of experiences to bear in the fight against all forms of criminal activities in the state,” he said.
The CP also pledged strengthen visibility and community based partnership in policing in line with the policy thrust of the Inspector General of Police and international best practices to bring crime to the barest minimum in the state.
He therefore solicited the support  of Akwa Ibom people to enable the command succeed in its drive  to ensure an effective policing in the state.
The new Police Boss, according to a statement made available to newsmen by  PPRO Frederick N-Nudam, holds a Masters Degree in Public Administration (MPA) from Lagos State University and a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Degree in Economics from Bendel State University, now Ambrose Alli University.  The Commissioner, Oyo State Police Command, Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, Monday explained how the suspected serial killer, 19-year-old Sunday Shodipe, who had confessed to killing over five people at Akinyele area of Ibadan escaped form police custody. The CP gave the explanation when he spoke with newsmen, saying that Shodipe escaped from… August 17, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The new Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Edward Awolowo Ajogun, Thursday promised to make policemen more visible in the state through intensive patrols and raids of roads, waterways, blackspots and criminal hideouts. Ajogun also vowed to take the battle to the dens of kidnappers, cultists, drug dealers, sea pirates and… July 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Police have arrested 328 suspects for cases of armed robbery, murder, cultism, rape and child trafficking in Akwa Ibom State. The state Police Commissioner, Imohimi Edgal, disclosed this while parading the suspects at Ikot Akpan Abia Police Headquarters in Uyo. The commissioner said the suspected criminals were arrested in July… August 12, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"