 Lionel Messi has reportedly spoken to Pep Guardiola over the prospect of joining Manchester City this summer.
A popular Sao Paulo-based journalist, Marcelo Bechler of Esporte Interativo broke the initial sensational move.
Another source, however, revealed that Barcelona believe that Manchester United have also started negotiations with the Messi’s agent.
Messi has spent his entire club career at Barcelona.
Since sending a fax message to Barcelona on Tuesday evening, the rumour mill has gone agog on the legend’s possible next destination.
Spanish outlet Radio Catalunya, reported that Messi has already contacted former boss Guardiola about a move to the Etihad, a speculation that has been confirmed by Marcel Bechler who previously broke the Neymar-to-PSG transfer and was the first to report about Messi’s desire to quit Barcelona this summer.
“Messi wants to play for Manchester City. He treats the departure from Barcelona as something that hurts his soul, but this is the end of a cycle,” the journalist tweeted on Wednesday.
Aside from Pep Guardiola’s side, there are Manchester United, Inter Milan and Paris Saint-Germain who have been mentioned as potential destinations for Messi.
The Catalans do not want to let him leave on a free transfer and continue to insist on his €700 million release clause.  Manchester City are weighing up offering Lionel Messi a long-term contract that would see him move to partner club New York City FC after three years in the Premier League, several sources have told ESPN. They could also offer Messi the chance to become an ambassador for the City Football Group, the holding company… August 26, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi has reportedly told Barcelona he wants to leave the club immediately in the wake of their Champions League failure. Messi cut a desolate figure as his side were thrashed 8-2 by Bayern Munich in their Champions League quarter-final on Friday night. It has led to Messi considering… August 16, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi has reportedly told Barcelona he wants to leave the club immediately in the wake of their Champions League failure. Messi cut a desolate figure as his side were thrashed 8-2 by Bayern Munich in their Champions League quarter-final on Friday night. It has led to Messi considering… August 17, 2020 In "Sports"