Fayemi, el-Rufai, Onyeama, Makinde back  to work after recovery from COVID-19  Almost six months after Nigeria confirmed its first coronavirus case, the country has recorded over 50,000 cases while over 40,000 cases have been discharged. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE highlighted some political elite that have recovered from the pandemic.   The world is no longer the same, no thanks to the global pandemic that has deposited distress in its path. For the first time in over a century, the borderless COVID-19 pandemic has made its way across all races, nations, and societies.  The onslaught of the pandemic has been real, lethal, and devastating. Many countries and states have been badly hit with daily lives and activities coming to a halt.  Also, economies have been badly affected and medical facilities are almost becoming insufficient to cater for victims as more cases are recorded daily.  As at the last count, the global statistics of COVID-19 infections stood at over 23million with over 14 million recoveries, while over 800,000 people have lost their lives to the pandemic. In Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, the scourge is also not slowing down and the import of its severity in Nigeria is palpable among both low and high profile personalities.  According to the latest report from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), a total tally of 51,905 confirmed cases have been recorded in the country with almost 40,000 discharged, while the death toll so far stands at almost 1,000. Since Lagos State, Nigeria’s commercial hub became the index state in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa for the coronavirus, the country has never been the same.    What started in Lagos on February 27, has spread to virtually all the 36 states of the country including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Thus, the most popular word on the lips of everyone today is coronavirus.  The devastating level of the virus is so lethal and knows no boundaries. It operates without limitations from class, social status, religion, creed, or political affiliations. In sum, no one is immune to the virus. Regardless of the rampage of the virus, millions of Nigerians still, however, think that the COVID-19 story is a spurious tale being told by the government to either cornered funds or serve the interest of some global institutions and countries.  Those in this line of thought backed their belief with some conspiracy theories making the round on social media platforms. Regardless of their skewed beliefs, COVID- 19 has, however, killed almost 1,000 Nigerians, mostly those with other underlying health conditions. It has afflicted and killed without discrimination.  The NCDC reports show that both the lowly and the mighty have died from COVID-19. But it seems that the dreaded respiratory disease have been waiting for a number of high and mighty in the country as the virus has exponentially increased among top political officer holders especially state governors and their spouses.  Unfortunately, the first most prominent case of a public office holder was that of Mallam Abba Kyari, the first Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari who tested positive for the virus on March 23 after returning from an official trip to Germany. He later died of complications arising from Covid-19 on April 18. Sadly, his death is one of the   many from the global pandemic that is increasingly making its way into the echelons of the political elite in the country.  According to NCDC, Nigeria’s fatalities from the dreaded virus are almost reaching the 1,000 mark. Since February, the lethal side of COVID-19 has been devastating as it has led to the passage of health workers, ordinary Nigerians and even notable politicians. Some of those who lost the battle against the virus include the immediate past governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi; Senator Bayo Osinowo, Senator Buruji Kashamu, and former Ondo State Commissioner of health, Wahab Adegbenro, among others.  As tear-jerking as the deaths of both high and low Nigerians to the virus are, it’s cheery to know that the rate of recovery in the country has been high and more than fatalities.  According to the NCDC report dashboard, out of the 51,304 confirmed cases as at August 22, a total number of 37,888 cases have been discharged, while 996 deaths have been recorded representing 1.9 per cent of the cases.  The centre also revealed that the breakdown came from the 369,904 samples tested across the country. The virus, caused by a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), is apparently not a death sentence as research has found out that for people with mild disease, recovery time is about two weeks, while people with severe or critical disease recover within three to six weeks.  Although research said people who recover from a viral infection often build up immunity to later contracting the same disease, the situation, however, is not yet clear  or COVID-19. But for those already certified negative from the virus, life has surely continued. Here are some of the high profile politicians and public office holders who recovered from the virus and have already returned to their routine activities.   Geoffrey Onyeama (Minister of Foreign Affairs)  Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister Geoffrey Onyeama joined the list of prominent Nigerians who contracted the coronavirus on July 19. Announcing his status in a tweet, Onyeama said he took his fourth COVID- 19 test after feeling some signs of throat irritation. He stated that the result returned positive, and he proceeded to isolation in a health facility, where he will receive treatment.  But after three weeks in isolation, Onyeama took to Twitter to announce that his latest COVID-19 test result came back negative ”by the very special grace of God”. ”I am eternally grateful to my family, the C-in-C and VP, the medical team, relations, friends, colleagues, religious leaders and numerous well-wishers, who through their care, prayers, fasting, messages of support and encouragement never let me walk alone,” he added.  Doyin Okupe (Former presidential aide) A former presidential aide, Dr Doyin Okupe, explained his journey to isolation which started on April 23 after he and his wife tested positive to the virus. The journey eventually ended three weeks after.  Okupe, a medical doctor, said, “I had malaria while on admission. Was effectively treated with an anti- malarial. I also developed cough    after about a week and was effectively treated by a fairly large dose of Augmentine for seven days.” Okupe said he was compelled to reveal how he survived the virus after a comment on his Facebook post had discredited the existence of COVID-19.  Responding to queries about how he had survived the disease, he said he used the anti-malaria drug—hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin and vitamin C. “The medications I took for my covid19 virus infections:Hydroxychloroquine, 400mg daily for 2days, thereafter 400mg daily for 3days. Azithromycin 500mg daily for 10 days. Zinc sulphate 100mg daily and Vitamin C 1200 mg daily till now,” he said.  Governor Bala Mohammed (Bauchi State)  The Bauchi governor tested positive for coronavirus on March 24 after he met and shook hands with Mohammed, the son of former Vice-President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, who tested positive for COVID-19 previously. But in a tweet on April 9, the governor announced his recovery after 15 days in isolation. He stated, “Alhamdulillah. I just received the green light. My second test for #COVID19 returned negative. I thank you all for your prayers & support even while I was in isolation.  Most importantly, all the praises & thanks be to Allah – the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful,” the tweet read. Not long after his recovery, the governor superintended the Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election that declared Godwin Obaseki winner of the party’s ticket ahead of the September election.  Governor Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna) El-Rufai was the second governor to test positive for the virus. The governor uploaded the video to announced his status on his social media account on March 28. He subsequently announced that his deputy, Hadiza Balarabe, would take over from him and chair the state’s coronavirus task force.  However, after over three weeks in isolation, the governor announced that he tested negative two consecutive times after receiving treatment. “I am delighted to report today after nearly four weeks of observing a strict medical regime, I have now received the all-clear after two consecutive negative test results. I am grateful to all that expressed concern during my illness. Thanks,” he had said. After his recovery, the governor said he infected four people with the virus during his own period of infection.  Thankfully, like the governor, all four have recovered. The governor has since resumed as the chief executive officer of the state and has been leading the line against the spread of the virus in the state.  Governor Seyi Makinde (Oyo State)  Less than ten days after hosting the much-vilified southwest Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) unification rally in Ibadan amid the pandemic scare, Governor Makinde announced that on March 30, that he was in isolation after testing positive for the virus.  Although the governor took responsibility for the ill-timing of the rally, he, however, denied claims that he contracted the disease at the unification rally, adding that “At the time that the rally was held in Oyo State, there was no known case of the COVID- 19 and after the rally.”  While in isolation, the governor sent out messages of hope to the people of the state, stating, “I am known as a long-distance runner. If I can outrun and outlast the virus, which I am sure, by God’s grace, I will do, so also will many of our people in Oyo State.”  However, Makinde broke the news of his recovery from the virus after just one week in isolation, expressing gratitude to the people of the state for their prayers. While stating that he has received a second negative test for COVID-19, the governor tweeted, “I am deeply moved by your prayers and support throughout this period. I am so thankful. This evening, I received my second negative test result for COVID-19.”  Governor Makinde, however, courted controversies when he revealed how he fought and survived COVID-19 infection while his quarantine lasted. Speaking on all steps he used in getting well, the governor said, “There have been all sorts…  My very good friend and brother, Dr. Muyideen Olatunji, the one in charge of the Primary Healthcare for Oyo State, came to me and said, look, I am going to send to you this black seed oil, it boosts immunity.  So, I mix it with honey and took one teaspoon in the morning and one in the evening.”.  Afterward, the governor while inaugurating an isolation centre in Agbami said there is no big deal about testing positive to coronavirus pandemic. “I battled COVID-19. It is not a death sentence and it is nothing to be ashamed of. The virus is here with us and will be here for some time to come. It will not disappear two or three weeks from now.  So, we have to learn how to live with it. So, it is not a big deal that anyone tests positive to COVID-19 and I am not ashamed of it. I fought the virus and I am up and about now. I pray that as many of us that will fight the virus will come out of it doing very well.”  The state youngest cabinet member, 28-year-old Seun Fakorede, who is the Commissioner for Youth and Sports also  tested positive for COVID-19 on June 24 and spent nearly four weeks in isolation before defeating the virus. The governor had earlier disclosed that three of his commissioners tested positive for COVID-19, adding that another two of the tests taken was inconclusive.  Interestingly, an unverified report say the state governor sacked one of the infected Commissioners who said earlier in an interview that he spent 55 days in isolation to treat COVID-19 before getting well.  Governor Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia State)  Governor Ikpeazu announced his positive status to COVID-19 on June 8 and that makes him the first governor in the southeast to contract the disease.  Interestingly, the governor, less than three months before he announced his positive status, proclaimed that no COVID-19 case will be recorded in Abia, stating that, “Abia is the only state that is mentioned in the Bible. We have a promise from God that none of these diseases will touch God’s people,” the governor had said, adding: “We saw Ebola, it did not get to us. We saw monkeypox, it didn’t get to us. Even this one (coronavirus) will also pass us by.”  According to the Commissioner of Information, John Okiyi Kalu, the governor was confirmed positive for the disease after a second test — the first having returned negative.  Kalu said: “Recall that on Saturday, 30th May 2020, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu volunteered his sample for COVID-19 test and subsequently directed members of the state Executive Council (EXCO) and those of the interministerial committee on COVID-19 to submit themselves for the same test. On Tuesday, 2nd June, 2020.  The result of Governor Ikpeazu’s test returned negative. “On Thursday, 4th June 2020, the Governor submitted another sample at NCDC laboratory for confirmation and the result returned positive.”  Although failure to recover after the usual 14 days of isolation by the governor sparked concern among citizens of the state, Ikpeazu was eventually certified free of the disease July 3.  Governor Ikpeazu who over the weekend held a thanksgiving service to mark his recovery, said “I have forgiven those who wished and prayed for my death while I was down with COVID- 19. The ugly experience has further strengthened ny faith in God.”  Governor Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta)  Another state executive on the list of those who have felt the fang of the virus and recovered is the governor of Delta State, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa. The medical doctor turned politician tested positive for COVID-19 alongside Edith, his wife, and one of their daughters.  The governor and his wife went into isolation following the confirmation of their daughter’s case. He wrote, “My wife and I have tested positive for COVID-19.  We are well and continuing with our isolation/medication. We thank you all for your continued prayers for us and our daughter.” But the governor and his family got discharged from isolation centre in Asaba on July 14 after testing negative for COVID-19.  Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo State)  On June 30, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State tested positive for the dreaded COVID-19 disease. He wrote on his social media handle,”I tested positive for #COVID19. “All is well. I’m asymptomatic and have been self-isolating. Work continues. Your continued prayers over my well being are most appreciated.”  But barely a week in isolation, the governor who is in the race for a second term bid, wrote, “Today I delivered my weekly #COVIDー19 briefing in person after receiving news this morning that I tested Negative for Covid. I am grateful for all your support and prayers. We will win the COVID-19 fight in Ondo State.”  Governor Dave Umahi (Ebonyi State)  In a statement he personally signed on July 14, Umahi said the result of the test conducted on him by the NCDC came back positive. He added that some aides of his aides have also tested positive but he did not disclose their identities.  Umahi, who said he is not showing any symptom at the moment appealed to the people of Ebonyi to take the NCDC protocols more seriously. He said, for now, he would work from home and attend meetings virtually while in isolation.  Recall that after sending his sample for test, Umahi had said his deputy would coordinate the fight against COVID- 19 if his result came back positive. Addressing his cabinet members, he said, “If I test positive, my deputy will carry on with the fight as a frontline    worker, but we will be extremely careful and use zoom to do our jobs. No retreat, no surrender!  We will fight this COVID-19 matter to the end.” By July 31, the governor recovered and tested negative for COVID-19. Governor Umahi also revealed that his daughter and three of his close aides who also contracted the virus have now tested negative.  Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti State)  Ekiti State governor and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, became the eighth Nigerian governor to test positive when he announced his contraction with the virus on July 22.  ‘I took my third Covid-19 test yesterday and it came back positive. I’m generally ok and I’m already self-isolating at home and receiving the best of care from my medical team. I’m delegating critical tasks to my Deputy but will continue routine duty from home,” he tweeted.  But after nearly two weeks in isolation, the governor took to his Twitter handle again to announce that his COVID-19 repeat test has come back negative for the second time since he went into isolation.  He wrote, “After 11 days in isolation, I received news that my CoviD 19 repeat test came back negative. My sincere gratitude goes to God Almighty, my family, my medical team, and all wellwishers for the prayers and solidarity. We must continue to do all we can to tackle the pandemic.”  Baba Tela (Bauchi Deputy Governor)  Deputy Governor of Bauchi State, Baba Tela, tested positive for COVID-19 on June 3. Tela, who is also the Chairman, State Task Force Committee on COVID-19, was tested after exhibiting noticeable symptoms of the virus.  A statement said, “He contracted the disease while discharging his onerous responsibility as Chairman of the State Committee on COVID-19. Consequently, he has gone into self-isolation in Bauchi and health professionals are properly managing his situation.”  However, on June 11, the deputy governor was discharged after testing negative for COVID-19.  Wole Oyebamiji (Osun State SSG) The Secretary to the Osun State Government, Wole Oyebamiji, on July 1 joined the list of high profile Nigerians who tested positive for COVID-19. Oyebamiji, however, after about 10 days in isolation had his confirmatory test carried out on him returned negative.  Frank Okiye (Edo Assembly Speaker)  Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Frank Okiye, became the index COVID-19 case in the state in March after he returned from a United Kingdom trip.  Okiye said, “I came into the country from London through the international airport, via the local airport, and down to Benin Airport with my aides and moved to my house; I was in self-isolation for about three weeks and none of my aides, family members, or friends were infested.  “Suspecting that I was exposed, I needed to save my family, so I contacted the Commissioner for Health who came with a team of medical professionals to inspect the place set up for my self-isolation. “It was after I tested positive for coronavirus that I became a bit destabilized.  After a while and with continuous interaction with people, I started overcoming the virus with local herbs and medication. I was placed on drugs to deal with the symptoms. Few days later, I started feeling better. Mine was with mild symptoms. I was not hit hard by the virus.”  He was however discharged from isolation centre on April 20 after testing negative twice.  Muhammed Babandede (Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Immigration Service)  Muhammed Babandede, the Comptroller-General of Nigeria Immigration Service tested positive for the virus on March 29. He said, “I tested positive for COVID-19. I have been in self-isolation since my return from the UK on Sunday 22nd of this month with British Airways in Lagos.  Babandede was in the United Kingdom with his wife, who, however, tested negative, he said. “I urge my loved ones, Immigration Officers and Nigerians to pray for me and all those affected,” he urged. “It is a very difficult time but we can’t change what God destined for us. I urge officers to continue working with my able Deputy to further move our Service to another level.   As advised by NCDC I am totally isolated.” However, Babandede on April 14 announced that he had tested negative twice to the coronavirus disease after self-isolating. The Service Public Relations Officer (SPEO), Sunday James, said in a statement that the news of the Comptroller General testing negative twice after self-isolation came with great relief and thanks to God.  “The CGI in an overwhelming appreciation took cognizance of the prayers and supplication of everyone for him. “Most importantly the Government, Honourable Minister of Interior Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Permanent Secretary Ministry of Interior, Georgina Ekeoma Ehuriah, members of the International Community who stood by the Service during this trying times.  “He prays for the recovery of others, and for God’s intervention for the world and Nigeria in this battle against Covid-19,” he said.  Terwase Orbunde (Ortom’s Chief of Staff)  Terwase Orbunde, Chief of Staff (CoS) to Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue, tested positive to the virus on July 4 and subsequently went on isolation. He, however, got discharged from the treatment centre few weeks after. Orbunde said, “It will be recalled that on July 4, I informed the public that I tested positive to COVID-19  “Consequently, I went into self-isolation in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. “After observing the stipulated protocols and having received the required treatment, I wish to state that the officials of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) after conducting other subsequent tests have declared that I am negative.  “The centre has also released me from isolation. I have since resumed my usual official duties,” he said.  Charles Aniagwu (Delta Commissioner for Information)  Delta Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, was tested positive for COVID-19 on June 20 and was subsequently isolated.  He said: “Initially, I had thought that for somebody who has been in the centre of the sensitisation in the state, that I could just go for the test to help deal with the issues of prejudices among the people on the reality of the pandemic and the measures available to counter it.  “As of when I went for the test, I was not having any symptoms, but between the time I was tested and when the result came out, I lost my sense of smell. “So, it became obvious that there was something wrong and 24 hours later, the test result came out and it turned out positive.”  He was subsequently discharged after testing negative to the virus.  Chiedu Ebie (Delta SSG)  Secretary to the State Government of Delta State, Mr. Chiedu Ebie, was in the isolation centre for 21 days before he was discharged after testing negative for the virus. According to Olisa Ifeajika, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Ebie, who had been at the isolation centre for 21 days, was discharged after testing negative for the virus. Mohammed Kawu (FCT Health Secretary)  The Acting Secretary of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Health and Human Services Secretariat, Mohammed Kawu, tested positive for COVID-19 on June 9.   Kawu, who spoke with newsmen at the Asokoro District Hospital, when he was receiving treatment, explained that his journey to the isolation center began 12 days earlier when he experienced feverish conditions. This prompted him to take the COVID-19 test which turned out to be positive.  Kawu who is the equivalent to the Commissioner for Health said it was very important for Nigerians to appreciate that COVID-19 is real and can be fatal. In his words “I want every Nigerians like I’ve always told them in the media, that this thing is real and anybody can be infected, especially those of us that are on the frontline.  The disease can be fatal and it is important that everyone follows all the extant guidelines of hand washing or sanitizing, maintain social distancing wearing of facial covering and staying at home.  Speaking on his symptoms and status of his health, Kawu said “I’m happy and I thank my creator that mine was a moderate infection. I got some symptoms that were not very severe. I had to be on intravenous (IV) drugs for about 10 days. I’m stronger now. Probably they will discharge me anytime soon”.  And that is to be as he was discharged after he tested negative for COVID-19 on July 12. “I developed a chest infection, so I had to be on antibiotics for some days. But thank God, myself and members of my family do not have the symptoms anymore and we have been discharged from the isolation centre,” he said.     