Counsel representing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Kano gubernatorial candidate in last year’s election, Abba Kabir, in the case of the intended selling of some public properties in the state, has accused the Kano State government of going ahead to lease the properties despite a pending court case.
Counsel to Kabir, Barrister Bashir Yusuf Tudunwazirci, lamented this after leaving court, which is hearing the matter of the proposed sale of Daula Hotel and the Shahuci Motorpark to Mudassir and Brothers and El-Samad Textile Company, that government had gone to lease the two places, despite the ongoing case.
He said the action of the government of moving to sell the public places contravened provision of the law which prioritized public over individuals.
Barrister Bashir said legally speaking government had no powers to sell public properties to individuals, because it is against the provision of the laws.
However, the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice, Barrister Musa Abdullahi Lawan, said the case has no basis because government has every right to transfer public places to anybody for the good of the people.
Furthermore, Barrister Lawan denied acting despite a pending court case, pointing out, that they were only served on the matter just two days ago when government had already taken decision on the places.  A Makurdi Chief Magistrate Court, presided over by Mr. Isaac Ajim, Friday remanded Hon. Jonathan Agbidye of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in prison custody for alleged criminal conspiracy, armed robbery and abduction. Hon. Agbidye, who represents Katsina-Ala East State Constituency in the Benue State House of Assembly, was remanded… August 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Mr. Kunle Adegoke is a former Secretary of the North East Task Force of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on virtual court proceedings, Infectious Disease Bill and sundry issues     What is the propriety of special courts for kidnappers and armed… June 29, 2020 In "News" AKEEM NAFIU writes that litigations may soon ensue over the newly-signed amended Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 2020 following mounting controversies regarding Section 839 (1) of the new legislation which empowers the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and the supervising minister to sack Board of Trustees of religious organizations and… August 24, 2020 In "Law"