 The Police Command in Enugu State says the screening of candidates for community policing officers in the state will begin on Wednesday, at the command’s headquarters in Enugu.
The command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, in a statement on Tuesday in Enugu, said that the three-day screening would last till Friday, from 7:30 a.m each day.
“The Command wishes to inform the citizenry of the state, particularly those nominated for the position of Community Policing Officers, that they have been slated for a screening exercise as follows:
“Enugu North Senatorial Zone (Igbo-Etiti, Igbo-Eze North, Igbo-Eze South, Nsukka, Udenu, and Uzo-Uwani council areas) for Wednesday, Aug. 26.
“Enugu East Senatorial Zone (Enugu East, Enugu North, Enugu South, Isi-Uzo, Nkanu East and Nkanu West council areas) for Thursday, Aug. 27.
“Enugu West Senatorial Zone (Aninri, Awgu, Ezeagu, Oji-River and Udi council areas) for Friday, Aug. 28,’’ he said.
The police spokesman said that candidates must compulsorily adhere to COVID-19 protocols.
“These include hand washing/sanitisation, maintaining of social/physical distance, and the wearing of face masks,’’ he added.  The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, has moved to appoint traditional monarchs, and heads of security agencies in the state to kick-start community policing in his domain. This was made known in a statement, signed and made available to journalists on Thursday in Abakaliki by the State Commissioner for… August 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Hon. Nicholas Ozonsi, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Enugu State, in this interview with KENNETH OFOMA, discusses some burning national issues and Enugu politics of power rotation. Excerpts: How do you see the zoning controversy among the three senatorial zones of Enugu State? In terms of… August 19, 2020 In "Politics" KENNETH OFOMA writes on the zoning debate that has characterized the polity in Enugu State ahead of the 2023 governorship election   Ahead of the 2023 general election, the political environment in Enugu state in recent time has been awash with debates of zoning or power shift among the senatorial… August 11, 2020 In "Politics"