 Daniel Atori, Minna Aggrieved Youths of Tunga, Kpakungu, Soje, Morris and Barkin-Salle, have taken to the metropolis of Minna, Niger State, to protest the epileptic electricity supply in the region.
The protestants alleged that each household in the community had contributed N2,000 to the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), yet the problem had persisted.
They estimated thatthe total contribution made to the sector was over N2 million, but they they were yet to enjoy three hours of uninterrupted power supply daily.
The outraged youths also sent away the Secretary to the Niger State Government (SSG), Alhaji Ahmed Matane, who came to appeal to them to open up the roads and stop their protest, they demanded for the presence of the state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello.
They stated that they did not vote the SSG stressing that it is the governor whom they voted should come and address them.
The SSG, unable to relay his message and appeal that the roads be opened up, left in the midst of boos and cat calls from the protesters.
The youths declared that they were tired of the epileptic power supply saying that AEDC was taking the people in the state for granted which they will no longer accept.
The Kpakungu Road is the only road that leads to the southern part of the country and one of the most used roads in the state.
Motorists, especially those traveling to the south, were stranded due to the massive gridlock caused by the protesters.
The youths carried various placards with inscriptions that read: “Enough is enough”, “no to estimated billing”, “no to 2 hours of light”, “if AEDC cannot give us light, they should pack and go” and “we no go gree” amongst others.    Following his overwhelming victory in the 2015 governorship election, Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello knew that the cumulative essence of governance is the welfare of the people. Five years down the line, the governor in this interview says that his administration has impacted positively on the wellbeing of the… June 21, 2020 In "Politics" Travelers and commuters along Eket-Ikot Abasi end of the East-West Road were yesterday held up in over nine-hour traffic as thousands of youths barricade the road to protest the exclusion of Mkpat Enin Local GovernmentAreafromthedraft report of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for Utapate OML13 Oil and Gas exploration project, submitted… August 21, 2020 In "News" Hon. Ife Akinsoyinu is the Director-General of the Eddy Olafeso Campaign Organisation ahead of the Ondo State governorship election scheduled for October 10, 2020. In this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, he speaks on the programmes of the former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Vice Chairman and some recent political developments… July 19, 2020 In "Politics"