Following the choice of Ikengboju Gboluga as the running mate to the standard-bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the October 10 election, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), major stakeholders within the party yesterday fumed over the running mate. Gboluga, representing Okitipupa/ Irele Federal Constituency in the National Assembly was on Monday announced by Jegede as his running mate. Before Gboluga’s emergence as Jegede’s running mate, it was speculated that Ilaje Local Government Area of the state would produce the running matewithBanjiOkuomo who was an aspirant at the PDP primaries topping the list of those to be announced by Jegede. Among those also speculated were Benson Amuwa and Sola Ebiseni who was also a co-contestant with Jegede at the primaries. One of the aspirants, who contested the primaries with Jegede, Godday Erewa yeterday frowned at the choice of Gboluga as he described Jegede’s action as a deliberate tactic to scheme the Ilajes out of the political equation. He said: “The selection of a running mate to any candidate in a political contest is a crucial component of the electioneering process and could be instrumental in either boosting or hampering the electoral victory of a political party especially in an election that is bound to be fiercely contested. “Presumably, running mates are ordinarily expected not only to balance a candidate personality, inexperience or lack of character but more importantly, to provide geographical balance geared towards ensuring just and equitable representation. “Against this backdrop, it is quite confounding that the ilaje nation was deliberately neglected in the choice of a running mate for the PDP candidate. Are we saying that there is no one in ilaje nation to be so nominated by the PDP? “This decision to ignore us is generating palpable tension and disenchantment and if not properly managed, the consequences would be immensely catastrophic.”   In this analysis, BIYI ADEGOROYE looks at how choice of running mates, the defection of the embattled Deputy Governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi to the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and other intrigues would affect the Ondo State governorship election   With the release of the 17 governorship candidates and their running… August 2, 2020 In "Politics" Indication yesterday emerged that the embattled Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon. Agboola Ajayi has concluded plans to defect from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). With Ajayi’s latest moves from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the opposition PDP, a series of political permutations… July 30, 2020 In "News" Following moves by Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon. Agboola Ajayi to dump the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), indications yesterday emerged at the week- end that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP may likely impose Ajayi as running mate of the party’s… August 3, 2020 In "News"