Nigerian-born and British world heavyweight boxing champion, Anthony Joshua, has gained a fresh dose of assurance about the possibility of a megabucks unification fight between him and fellow-Briton, Tyson Fury.  This followed the loss of their compatriot, Dillian Whyte to Alaxander Povetkin last weekend . Information from the boxing arena has it that Whyte’s defeat by Russia’s Povetkin cleared the path for Fury to tango Joshua once Gypsy King overcomes USA’s Deontay Wilder in their trilogy World Boxing Council (WBC) title clash.  The report adds that Fury has been given the green light by the WBC to fight Joshua in a much-expected ‘Battle of Britain’ if he can defeat Wilder; as both Brits earlier agreed financial terms for two super fights over the next two years.  There has been huge clamour for Joshua to meet his fellow-Brit in a fight for the undisputed championship, which remains someway off from being done, but now has oneless hurdle to over come; and WBC president, Mauricio Sulaiman confirmed right after Whyte’s defeat that Fury has now been freed up to fight whoever he wants should he come through against Wilder  World heavyweight boxing champion Anthony Joshua has vowed to knock his rival Tyson Fury out in the sixth round of their prospective unification battle. Though, the date for the much-anticipated fight has not been fixed, they have however settled the financial terms on a two-fight deal. Joshua seems to have… August 28, 2020 In "Sports" Reigning World Boxing Council WBC heavyweight champion, Tyson Fury has continued with his war of words with rivals Deontay Wilder and Anthony Joshua. Fury has vowed to destroy his Wilder and Joshua when they clash later on in the year according to report by Daily Star. The Gypsy King already… July 30, 2020 In "Sports" Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder's third fight is being targeted for December 19 with locations "all over the world" still in the running, according to Top Rank executive Brad Jacobs. Wilder is contracted to another WBC heavyweight championship match-up before Fury can face his mandatory challenger Dillian Whyte or… July 1, 2020 In "Sports"