 Hansi Flick insisted that Bayern Munich will stick with their attacking principles despite the threat posed by Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League final.
With Kylian Mbappe, Neymar and Angel Di Maria, PSG have the ability to unlock the German champions having reunited to devastating effect in the semi-final win over Leipzig, but Flick is not fazed by facing such a talented triumvirate.
“In our games over the last 10 months we’ve always tried to impose our style on the opposition and always played with a high line,” Flick said. “Ultimately we’ve got results doing that, so we won’t change too much on that score.
“What we’ve noticed firstly is the fact we’ve had this high line, we don’t necessarily want to give too much space to the opposition, but of course there’s quite a lot of space in behind our defensive line.
“What is important is we can press the opposition when we are in possession, we have to make sure we can cover all that ground when it goes behind.
“It’s important to cut out those passing lines and not give our opponent space to pass the ball into. They have pace and are a top team with incredible players.”
Defender Joshua Kimmich will be among those tasked with keeping PSG’s front three at bay.
“We don’t know the starting XI at this stage but I think I’m going to play right-back,” he said.  Bayern Munich sent out an emphatic and ominous message to their Champions League rivals with an absolute demolition of fellow European heavyweights Barcelona in a gloriously chaotic and utterly one-sided quarter-final tie in Lisbon. The high-pressing, energetic and ruthless German champions were on a different level to their Spanish… August 15, 2020 In "Sports" Curtains will finally fall on the longest European football season in history when Paris Saint Germain (PSG) face Germany powerhouse, Bayern Munich in the last game of the UEFA Champions League. However, due to the coronavirus, which broke out across the word last December, it has meant that the 2019/20… August 23, 2020 In "Sports" DStv and GOtv continue to deliver the best to football fans, including the conclusion of the 2020 UEFA Champions League this Sunday, now extended to DStv Compact + Confam and GOtv Max customers! Football fans are in for what promises to be an epic showdown between French and German continental… August 22, 2020 In "Sports"