 The Lagos government has shut down the isolation centre in Eti Osa Local Government Area of the state.
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu announced the closure of the facility at Lagos House, Marina, during the 17th update on the management of coronavirus in the state.
He said the isolation centre at Agindigbi in Ikeja would also be closed and the patients relocated to a large capacity centre – Indo-Centre in Anthony, which would be soon be inaugurated.
“Over the last four, five months, we have built excess capacity centre, but that is only the way to go, you cannot over-prepare,” he said.
“We have got to a stage where we need to balance the economics of this and which of these facilities do we need to keep running. Some of them now are having less than 20 per cent of occupancy.
“This is why we reached a conclusion to shut Eti-Osa facility and another one in Lekki.”
He explained that the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Yaba “is now also gradually being reverted back to its former status as a hospital to cater to all forms of infectious diseases.”
However, the governor said the dedicated tent of CACOVID, a private sector initiative, at the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Yaba, would remain strictly for COVID-19 cases.
Sanwo-Olu said in June, the government expanded COVID-19 testing capacity in Lagos with the accreditation of seven private laboratories.
According to him, in the week which ended July 26, the government successfully tested close to 9,000 samples across the public and private sector laboratories.
He said that showed a 50 percent increase from the approximately 6,000 samples tested in each of the preceding two weeks.
The governor said that the increase in testing would lead to an increase in the number of daily confirmed cases of the virus in the state.  The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has explained that the Eti-Osa Isolation Centre was shut because its patients were evacuated to a more expansive isolation centre in Anthony area of the state.   According to the governor, apart from the Eti-Osa isolation Centre which was shut on Friday July… August 9, 2020 In "News" Lagos State government has discharged 50 COVID-19 patients after testing negative to the deadly virus. According to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the discharged patients comprised 13 females and 37 males including 26 foreign nationals were discharged from the state isolation facilities to reunite with the society. The governor, who is also… July 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...Dislodges football field crowd Muritala Ayinla Following New Telegraph's report on the the continued hosting of football competitions with corresponding crowd of spectators on a field popularly known as ‘White Sand’ in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State on Sunday, the state government has disloged spectators and players on… June 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"