 Akwa Ibom State government has given a nod to the state’s COVID-19 Incident Management Committee (IMC) to continue in its aggressive community testing for coronavirus cases and immediate isolation and treatment for persons who have tested positive to the virus.
The state Commissioner for Information & Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong made this known while fielding questions on the programme: ‘News Day’, which aired on ‘Arise TV’ in Uyo.
The commissioner stated that the state Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel has directed that aggressive community testing for the virus be carried out in the state as part of his administration’s efforts to curb further spread of COVID-19.
He stated that apart from the regular testing of those showing symptoms and those identified from contact tracing, it was necessary for the state government to intensify efforts in carrying out aggressive community testing in order to win the fight against the health pandemic.
The state’s Spokesman said that the approach is one of the adopted measures by the state government to further ensure that students in exit classes currently writing their mandatory examinations as well as those writing the ongoing Senior Schools Certificate Examinations (SSCE) are given full protection from contracting the virus.
The commissioner further added that prior to the commencement of the examination, the state government had procured a large number of face masks for onward distribution to secondary schools in the state which he affirmed has long been given out to the students for their personal use.
He said that although a lot of students have been tested, only one sample was confirmed positive. He explained that the affected student is currently writing the examination from one of the isolation centres in the state with additional measures put in place to ensure that the integrity of the examination is not compromised.
Comrade Ememobong disclosed that the IMC is currently visiting various communities in the state to carry out random testing to forestall community spreading especially among the people dwelling in the hinterlands.
Ini assured that the state government was working assiduously at flattening the coronavirus curve in the state by increasing contact tracing and arresting community spreading. He added that no stone would be left unturned in making sure that the state wins the war against the COVID-19 pandemic.  *Okays N50,000 fee for virus tests in private labs *Says demand could exceed 4,000 daily   Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi has said that citizens might be requested to present COVID-19 test rsults to confirm status periodically, as part of requirements for returning to work. The commissioner… July 1, 2020 In "News" T he Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has said there was no plan whatsoever, to transport positive samples of coronavirus from one state to the other.     This came as the NCDC clarified that the recent statements by the Cross River Commissioners of Information and Health were… June 21, 2020 In "Opinion" *Okays 7 laboratories to boost testing capacity   Muritala Ayinla   Lagos State government has said that 5,064 out of a total of 9,497 confirmed COVID-19 cases in the state have recovered, saying that 2,381 of the patients have not been picked up due to their refusal to do so… June 27, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"