…hotels, others to pay N250,000  Osun State government yesterday announced fines for defaulters of the COVID- 19 protocols. In a statement, the Deputy Governor, Benedict Olugboyega Alabi, warned against violating rules on the disease by residents of the state.  Alabi, who doubles as the chairman of the COVID-19 Task Force, also said the government would enforce stronger punitive measures.  He said: “With effect from Monday, August 3, 2020, the government of Osun State will begin enforcement of stronger  punitive measures which will include the deployment of Mobile Courts, imposition of fines on defaulters and more stringent enforcement exercises by the Joint Task Force.  “Hotels, clubs and bars that flout COVID-19 safety protocols shall be closed and fined N250,000 before they can be reopened.  Defaulting worship centres shall be closed and fined N100,000 before they can reopen. Private hospitals caught treating COVID-19 patients shall have their establishments shut and the owners’ practising licenses withdrawn. “Individuals, who flout the safety protocols of the state government, after being tried, shall be sentenced to community service.  Motorcycles that exceed approved loading capacity shall be seized and fined N2,000. Buses and mini-buses that violate the approved loading capacity shall be seized and fined N5,000.  “Having examined the rising figures of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the state in recent times, the state government of Osun is worried that in spite of the various measures taken to ensure the safety of its citizens, some individuals and institutions have continued to aid the spread of the virus through their flagrant disregard for government’s guidelines  Osun State government yesterday commenced the total enforcement of COVID- 19 safety protocols. This was as over 100 violators of the safety protocols were sentenced to community service of various degrees.   The enforcement was in line with the government resolve to contain the further spread of the deadly virus.… August 4, 2020 In "News" Forty-eight hours after the Federal Government imposed multiple restrictions on social activities across Nigeria over the next five weeks, some states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have announced similar measures to reduce human contact and curtail the spread of the second wave of Coronavirus (COVID- 19) in their respective… December 24, 2020 In "News" Wole Shadare The Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has issued a stern warning to foreign airlines operating into Nigeria from the UK and South Africa that failure to adhere strictly to the new travel rules will attract penalties. The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 over the weekend issued new… December 27, 2020 In "Aviation"