Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri on Thursday stated that his administration would focus on developing agriculture and small and medium scale enterprises.
Speaking in Yenagoa during the maiden Executive Council meeting of the ‘Prosperity Governmnent’, Governor Diri said in order to actualize this, directed the commissioners in charge of Agriculture and that of Trade, Industry and Investment to brace up for the tasks ahead.
The Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Ayibaina Duba, who spoke unbehalf of the governmnent, said the governor emphasised the need to change the value system and orientation of Bayelsans for them to be more productive and self-reliant.
The governor challenged the new cabinet members to realise that they had enormous responsibilities that require their creativity and ingenuity to deliver the prosperity agenda of the administration through their different ministries.
Also speaking, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Biriyai Dambo (SAN), pledged that the impact of the administration would be felt in every nook and cranny of the state.  BayelsaStateGovernor, DouyeDiri, yesterday told his new commissioners, who were sworn in Yenagoa, that service to the people was the essence of their appointment. The governor also charged them to work towards actualising the dreams of the state’s founding fathers.   Speaking during the swearing in of 24 new commissioners and… August 26, 2020 In "News" The Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, yesterday forwarded the names of 24 people as Commissioner-nominees to the state House of Assembly for confirmation as members of the State Executive Council (SEC). The cabinet list came exactly after six months that he was sworn in as governor following the Supreme Court… August 14, 2020 In "News" Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa     Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, on Friday disclosed that his cabinet nominees would be known next week. Senator Diri gave the hint during his first meeting with the state council of traditional rulers, which held at their secretariat in Yenagoa. The governor was quoted… August 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"