 Muritala Ayinla There was apprehension and panic this morning at Ademola Adetokunbo Crescent, Victoria Island when fire gutted a new generation bank, destroying property worth millions of naira.
New Telegraph learnt that a tanker loaded with 33,000 litres of diesel and with registration number AKD 637 XP and car,
with registration number AKD 234 FA,
stationed beside it were completely destroyed by the inferno.
It was learnt that the incident occurred when the tanker was dispensing fuel for the uses of generators in the bank premises and inadvertently caught fire.
Speaking on the incident, the Director-General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Dr Femi Oke-Osanyintolu said: “On arrival at the incident scene, it was observed that a fully loaded 33,000 litres diesel tanker with registration AKD 637 XP no. and a car stationed beside it AKD 234 FA were completely ravaged by the fire.
“Investigation conducted at the scene revealed that the tanker was dispensing fuel for the uses of generators in the bank premises and inadvertently caught fire.
“A combined intervention of the emergency responders (LASEMA Response Team, Eko Hotel, LASG fire, UBA Fire Service and Federal fire) were able to arrest the fire and stop it from escalating further in the premises. No loss of life recorded, damping down on going “  Tragedy yesterday morning struck at the popular Mile 2 area of Lagos as a fuel tanker conveying 55,000 litres lost control and fell, killing a woman. Saturday Telegraph gathered that the tanker with registration number KSF 260 XY loaded to capacity with 55,000 litres of PMS (petrol) ran into a… August 8, 2020 In "News" Despite the fact that reconstruction of the Lagos-Ibadan  expressway  has reached 60 per cent completion, current  surge in tanker accidents resulting in damages  of  finished  sections of the road is generating  concerns among stakeholders. Dayo Ayeyemi reports   W hen the Federal Government, led by President Mohammadu Buhari, flagged off… June 30, 2020 In "Business" Daniel Atori, Minna Over 50 shops and houses were on Sunday night destroyed after a tanker loaded with Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) exploded in flames after crashing with a trailer in Lambata town in Gurara Local Government Area of Niger State. As at this morning, the details of the… September 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"