…backs ECOWAS’ position on return to constitutional order President Muhammadu Buhari has advocated the sustenance of sanctions and pressures on the military junta in Mali by the African Union (AU), United Nations and the ECOWAS in order to force a return to constitutional order. This came as the President threw his weight behind the ECOWAS Heads of State calling for the immediate release of the President of Mali, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who had been incarcerated by the soldiers who overthrew his administration on Tuesday. According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, the President, while speaking at a virtual ECOWAS Extraordinary Session on the Situation in Mali, noted that removal of the Malian leader could spiral into more crises in the country, with devastating consequences for the West African sub-region. He said: “I am pleased that ECOWAS, African Union, UN and others issued strongly worded statements against the action of the Malian military. The events in Mali are great setbacks for regional diplomacy which have grave consequences for the peace and security of West Africa. I am pleased, therefore, that this Extraordinary Summit, holding to discuss pathways to the debacle we face today in Mali, is most timely and appropriate. “We need to isolate series of sanctions-regimes that can create and sustain sufficient pressures on the military to force a return to the status quo. The critical issues for resolution in the Malian crisis had been aptly captured as the four-point pathways to peace. Within that context, and if all parties to the crisis were to abide by those recommendations, the developments now on ground would have been avoided.” He stressed that a politically stable Mali was paramount and crucial to the stability of the sub-region. “ECOWAS, AU, and UN should not stand by, while the situation deteriorates. Thus far, their strong statements of condemnation are sincerely appreciated and I urge them to continue to walk this route together with us until sanity returns to Mali with the restoration of civil administration. “Indeed, it saddens me greatly as we meet today to discuss the turn of events in Mali, which commenced on Tuesday this week, where President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, his Prime Minister and senior members of his government were arrested, resulting in the forceful resignation of the President as well as the dissolution of the Parliament. “ECOWAS interventions, through series of efforts by Ministers, the Special Envoy and Chief Mediator and a group of Heads of State of our Organization as well as an Extraordinary Summit did not yield positive results. Today, Mali has not only descended into political chaos, but also socioeconomic and security disaster with potential tragic consequences to Mali and the sub-region.” The President commended the AU, UN and other international bodies for condemning the military coup in Mali, urging them to work with ECOWAS in restoring peace and order in the country by insisting on the supremacy of constitutional provisions. He also stressed that Nigeria will continue to support the decisions of ECOWAS. “The action of the military in Mali has regrettably hoisted on us as a sub-region, the need to decide the options that will be consistent with the provisions of the Protocol on Good Governance and Democracy, which ECOWAS, AU, and the UN subscribe to. In this context, therefore, Nigeria subscribes to the under-listed recommendations for action by our Organisation: “(a) President Keita and other detainees should be released unconditionally and with immediate effect. (b) Nigeria supports the efforts of President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger, for wider regional and continental consultations, especially on the possibility of detaching ECOWAS and AU troops with the UN Mission in Mali, to protect State Institutions and also act as first layer of defence in the country to help preserve and protect lives and property.” The Nigerian leader also condoled with President Issoufou of Niger on the tragic attack his country suffered earlier in August, while commending the Chairman of ECOWAS for his continued effort in Mali’s political situation since the results of the parliamentary elections were announced in March. Among the Declarations of the summit were: firmness on the restoration of constitutional order; release of President Keita and all those arrested; stoppage of economic relations with Mali, with exceptions granted to staple foods, fuel and medication, for the sake of the people; continued engagement with all parties to the crisis, while the Special Envoy appointed to mediate, former President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria, along with Jean-Claude Kassi Brou, President of ECOWAS Commission, are to visit Mali to convey the decisions of the West African leaders.   Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan yesterday told President Muhammadu Bahari that the political crisis in the Republic of Mali has yet to be resolved. Jonathan, who is ECOWAS Special Envoy to Mali, according to a statement by Buhari's spokesman, Femi Adesina, told his successor that the main opposition group, M5, continued to… August 19, 2020 In "News" The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has rejected the military coup in Mali and ordered sanctions against its ringleaders. The bloc of 15 West African countries condemned the mutiny within the Mali’s armed forces that led to seizure of power and ouster of President Ibrahim Boubacar Kéita.… August 19, 2020 In "Top Stories" President promises to confer with ECOWAS leaders on Mali’s crisis Former President Goodluck Jonathan has stated that his relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari remains cordial. Jonathan, in an interaction with State House Correspondents after a meeting with Buhari, said: “You’ve been seeing me coming and you have been seeing us… July 22, 2020 In "News"