*Airlines’ actions wicked, callous – Waba  Wole Shadare  Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has condemned and rejected the recent sack of 69 pilots by Air Peace, 100 pilots by Bristow Helicopters and the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) executives working with Turkish Air. A statement made available to New Telegraph and signed by NLC President, Ayuba Waba described the sack by the airlines as ‘highly insensitive, callous and unjust’. The NLC called on the management of Turkish Air, Air Peace and Bristow Helicopters to reinstate all the sacked workers within two weeks. He noted that as agreed between labour and employers’ association, social dialogue should be used to resolve industrial concerns instead of the current resort to unilateralism. “We will not hesitate to mobilize the weight of the entire Nigerian workforce to the premises of Turkish Air, Air Peace and Bristow Helicopters if our demands are not met,” he said. He stated that it was very traumatic for workers who are still reeling from psychological and socio-economic difficulties imposed by the recent lockdown measures. His words: “The sack of Air Turkish, Air Peace and Bristow Helicopters workers is highly insensitive, callous, and unjust. The unilateral sack of executive members of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) working with Turkish Airline is particularly distressing. “These workers were sacked for fighting for the rights of Nigerian workers in Turkish Air. This is very reprehensible. We wish to remind Turkish Air that unionized workers cannot be punished or sacked for participating in trade union activities. “This action is aimed at frustrating unionization in Turkish Air and to enslave Nigerians working with Turkish Air. The anti- labour practices in Turkish Air constitute fundamental infractions on our Constitution and labour laws and a gross disrespect to Nigeria.” He emphasized that section 40 of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution guarantees freedom of association including the right to join and participate in the activities of trade unions.  Aircraft pilots have concluded plans to down tools in two weeks if Air Peace and Bristow Helicopters fail to recall their colleagues sacked on Monday and Tuesday by the airlines. The threat to carry out their strike action could worsen the fragile aviation industry and ground skeletal operations of carriers… August 6, 2020 In "News" ...airline says action illegal   National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), members of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and all its affiliate bodies in the aviation industry made good their threat to ground Bristow Helicopters over protracted labour issues.   The union leaders and their members blocked the… August 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Wole Shadare The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika has intervened in the protracted industrial action embarked upon by the National Association of Air Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) which has paralysed activities at Bristow Helicopters. According to NAAPE, the Minister pleaded with the unions to sheathe their swords pending the… August 6, 2020 In "News"