Dangote Cement Plc has presented 82 brand new trucks to its distributors to assist them ease their product distribution logistics.  The move, the company said, was to help the distributors, responsible for the availability of the cement products nationwide, to service their customers efficiently and more profitably and in turn take their businesses to the next level. This is coming on the heels of similar presentation of motorised threewheelers to some distributors and retailers across the nation.  The truck presentation, held at the Enugu assembly plant of the SHACMAN truck, was preceded by a special training session held for the drivers of the trucks, with the supervisors and managers of the distributors’ companies in attendance.  The training organised by Dangote Cement Plc in collaboration with Transit Support Services Limited (TSSL), the producers of SHACMAN trucks in Nigeria, was part of a purchase agreement, designed to ensure the drivers get acquainted with the new trucks to minimise breakdowns and auto accidents. According to the organisers, the training, which focused more on the drivers, touched on the special skills needed to drive such trucks, road signs and comportment of the drivers as well as the general driving rules. “It will help them to be more aware of their trucks and help to reduce carnage on Nigerian roads,” the firm said.  Dangote Cement PLC, Ibese, said it had committed about N4.1 billion into various infrastructural projects as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for its 14 host communities in Yewa land in Ogun State.   This was as the company flagged off the 2020 Acutherapy training for youths in the area. In the… September 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Dangote Cement, at the weekend, redeemed the star prizes in the ongoing spell and win, as the four winners received alerts of N1 million each and a dummy cheque at the prize presentation event held in Warri, Delta State. In a related event, a husband and his wife were among… August 10, 2020 In "News" Sixty people have so far emerged millionaires nationwide in the on-going Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies Promo Season 2. The management of the cement company said no palliative could be better than the prize money won by the customers in the era of coronavirus pandemic.   The company’s Director of… August 17, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"