 For a three year period, the woman whose photograph appears in this story was distributing viagra to the residents of her community and coming back to have sex with them.
Giselle Hornby, 49, a nursing home aide in an Oklahoma City nursing home at Parkview Nursing Centre, has thus been arrested after multiple allegations of sexual assault and abuse, reports The Gazelle News.
Hornby modus operandi involved daily distribution of viagra to make residents of the community and coming back to have sex with them. Her target are males between the ages of 72 and 103 years and investigation revealed that she usually has sex with as many as 24 male residents daily!
Hornby is also accused of having given Viagra on a daily basis to a number of residents before forcing them into sexual intercourse without their consent.
“We got suspicious when our staff kept reporting that male residents seemed to be in a perpetual state of erection,” said manager Elise Wood.
Upon the arrest, hundreds of Viagra pills were seized from the former employee’s locker, as well as a number of sex toys such as vibrators, anal beads, bottles of lubricant and one strap-on dildo, explained Oklahoma City Police Department spokesman, John Seville.
“We found out not only that she was giving them Viagra pills, but that she was also having sex with up to 24 residents per day,” another employee told local reporters.
Although some residents openly enjoyed the abuse of the former nursing home aid and claim it was all done consensually, one resident admitted to reporters that he sincerely disliked the “weird sex toys” and the “anal stuff.”
“She is the best thing that has happened to me since my wife passed away 35 years ago, but I admit having an erection 16 hours a day was a bit annoying,” one resident told local reporters.
Investigators admit that even though no resident has officially filed a complaint against the former nursing aide she is still liable to criminal charges.
Giselle Hornby remains in the Oklahoma County Detention Center on bail totaling $600,000 and could face up to a maximum of 1040 years in jail, believe experts.  “Why we no go fight them. When dem dey collect N5,000 for customer hand for short time and we dey manage N500 - N1000, dem no come here. Na now dem wan dey come follow us drag the customers wey dey come here. We no fit allow make dem stay.”… August 1, 2020 In "Feature" Activities of child molesters (Pedophiles) have been on centre stage in the world’s advocacy over the past decade Nigeria has her own share of this psychological disorder. The rampaging assaults from these predators have been at the worrisome juncture, hence, the need to protect every Nigerian child (minor) from pedophiles… July 12, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine" …you can tell your story without mentioning names –Sociologist Maimuna Aliyu’s world shattered after her three months old daughter, Rukaya, was raped, leaving the baby battling to stay alive. She had heard of children being raped in the Adogi Community in Lafia Local Government of Nasarawa State, where she lives… July 11, 2020 In "Investigation"