Ikeja Lions Club, in conjunction with Ikeja Harmony of the International Lions Club, District 404B2, recently planted trees to help improve the environment, as part of their July service project.  At the tree planting exercise, which took place at the Lagos State Technical and Vocational College, Agindingbi, Lagos, about 100 pieces of different types of trees were planted under the supervision of the club’s District Governor, Lion Ademola Adesoye.  Adesoye said the exercise was to help increase the number of trees in the environment. According to him, the world is facing many challenges today, like global warming, because the environment is neglected.  “He who plants a tree, plants hope. With this gesture, we bring hope to our communities,” he said. In attendance at the tree planting were the President, Ikeja Lions Club, Lion Hakeem Segun Adetu; President, Ikeja Harmony Lions Club, Elizabeth Essah; Region 2 Chairperson, Lion Obafemi Ladipo and other Lions members of both clubs numbering over 80.  Also, the Executive Secretary, Lagos State Technical and Vocational Board, Ms Ronke Azeez, represented by Mrs. Omowunmi Oyebola; Mrs. Olufemi Odamo, vice-principal, Academics and Mrs. E. O. Betiku, vice-principal, special duty, Government Technical College, Agidingbi, Lagos, were on ground to receive the guests.  In its commitment to beautifying and making the environment better, a philanthropic organisation, the Ikeja Unique Lions Club, last Saturday commissioned a monument, the rehabilitation of a park, at the Lagos State Secretariat, Ikeja. A major feature of the park is a bronze sculpture of a lion which adorn the… June 27, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" T he International Lions club have started a new calendar year.     To commence the new era, Ikeja Metro Lions club President, Lion John Oriazowan handed over the leadership to the newly elected president of the club, Lion Evelyn Agbonifo-Fasakin.     Speaking at the handing over and award… July 5, 2020 In "Body & Soul" T he Ikeja Viva L’Amour of international Lions club, on Thursday,  June 18, donated sewing machine and grinding machine to the Lagos State correctional center for girls at Idi Araba.     According to the President of Ikeja Viva L’Amour Lions club, Folashade Ashafa, the gesture falls under the club’s… June 21, 2020 In "Body & Soul"