 The Bauchi State Commissioner of Commerce and Industry, Mohammed Alhassan Sadiq, has resigned his appointment and joined his boss, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, in the All Progressives Congress .
Sadiq tendered his letter of resignation to the Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, during Wednesday’s State Executive Council meeting, which held at the Banquet Hall of the Government House.
In the resignation letter, which he published on his verified Facebook page, late Wednesday night, he stated: “Alhamdulillah, Ma sha Allah, every beginning has an end.
“Today , the 19 th day of August 2020 , I have honourably tendered my voluntary resignation as a Commissioner ( Ministry of Commerce & Industries ) and a Member of the State Executive Council in the Government of Bauchi State.
“It was a rare privilege and opportunity to have served my state in such an exalted position. I thank H .E the Executive Governor – Sen . Bala A. Mohammed ( Kauran Bauchi) for the wonderful opportunity accorded to me.
“In the same vein, I must appreciate my boss, H .E, the Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara for his usual support and the role he played in influencing same ( his appointment )
“I sincerely thank all my colleagues in the EXCO and the Ministry, whom we have worked with as a formidable team. I have enjoyed the Understanding of my family at such a trying time.”
He added: “I beseech God to forgive all my wrongs and the general public/colleagues to pardon me.
“I urge you to help me, pray God to grant me success, contentment, and peace of mind in my new endeavor. Thank you all and remain blessed.”  The immediate past speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, has explained why he dumped the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).   The former Speaker questioned the payment of N4.6 billion loan taken from a bank and paid directly into… July 27, 2020 In "News" The immediate past Speaker of the House of Representatives Rt. Hon Yakubu Dogara has explained the reasons why he left the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In a letter of resignation addressed to the Bogoro ‘C’ Ward Chairman of the PDP dated July… July 26, 2020 In "News" PHILIP NYAM examines the recent war of attrition between former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara and Governor Bala Mohammed following the defection of the latter to the All Progressives Congress (APC)   On Friday, July 24, 2020, Nigerians heard with shock the sudden defection of former… August 2, 2020 In "Politics"