 Arsenal could offload up to nine first team stars this summer, one of which is Alexandre Lacazette, as Mikel Arteta looks to raise funds.
According to UK publication, Mirror, the Spaniard has been hugely impressive since taking over at the Emirates in December and is set to lead a summer overhaul.
FA Cup success on Saturday has helped add £30 million for the north Londoners as they secured a spot in the Europa League.
But Arteta knows he is working on a minimal budget and will have to sell players if he wants to secure his targets.
A host of players have long looked as if they were heading towards the exit door having failed to match expectations or fallen out of favour.
Sokratis, Matteo Guendouzi, Lucas Torreira, Henrikh Mkhitaryan and Sead Kolasinac could all be heading for pastures new, reports the Daily Mail. While Lacazette and Hector Bellerin could both be moved on if an appropriate offer is made despite being regulars in the Gunners first team.
The Frenchman was signed for a hefty fee in Arsene Wenger’s final year, but has been behind Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in the pecking order.
Arsenal are desperate to keep hold of their star striker who scored both their goals at Wembley.
Arteta is keen to add Atletico Madrid’s Thomas Partey and a new central defender despite welcoming William Saliba to the Emirates.
A permanent deal for Dani Ceballos is also on the agenda with the midfielder set for talks with parent club Real Madrid.
And the former Manchester City number two said that their FA Cup success should assist with their summer business.
He said: “I have presented my vision and my plans and all together we will try our best to get the club in the best possible position.
“I know how important it was as we needed to be in Europe. It is a must for our club and financially because it is a bigger step forward in order to allow us to do more things in the future and have a better structure financially.
“I am very pleased for both things – winning the trophy and having the option to play in Europe.”  The way Mikel Arteta remembers it, Arsenal had wanted it too much. Before the 2014 FA Cup final against Hull, when he was the captain, everybody connected to the club could feel the weight of a nine-year trophy drought. But, perhaps more than that, they could feel the future of… August 1, 2020 In "Sports" Either Frank Lampard or Mikel Arteta can win their first trophy as managers if they lead their sides to victory when Chelsea clash with Arsenal in Saturday’s FA Cup final at Wembley. Both former midfielders enjoyed fine careers on the pitch, Lampard becoming Chelsea’s all-time leading goal scorer during a… August 1, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Former Nigeria coach Sunday Oliseh has showered praise on Mikel Arteta he guided Arsenal to a 2-1 win over Chelsea in the FA Cup final on Saturday. Arteta, who won the FA Cup as a player with the Gunners, secured his first silverware as a manager as the North London heavyweights triumphed at an empty Wembley Stadium,… August 2, 2020 In "Sports"