 Retired quarter-miler, Fatima Yusuf-Olukoju, has highlighted some of the problems facing track and field in Nigeria.  Speaking with our correspondent from her base in the United States of America, the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games silver medallist said with the kind of coaching in the country, it is difficult for the athletes to get to the peak.  According to her, most of the country’s top athletes are currently base in the US and Europe, a move that has helped    their careers. “Yes, at this time it is the best option for the athletes (moving abroad),” she said.  “They get better coaching and at the same time get their neede d    education. “We also need to revamp our coaching education system. We are still coaching these kids with out-dated coaching methods.  “We have the talents but we must coach them the right way. “Looking at the relay, a relay cannot run faster than the individuals. We must have fast individual athletes in order to have a good relay team. Then we can hope to have a chance at making the podium.”  Meanwhile, the Chairperson of the Kogi Athletics Association has advised the country athletes to work harder so as to get sponsors and international contract to help their career.  She added: “Many Nigerian athletes nowadays are unrealistic about the process of getting to the top level. “Many of them only think about going to Europe to compete sometimes with slow times thinking they should get shoe contract.  “They need to put in the work so as to run fast and then competing in Europe and contract will follow. Not the other way around.”  Atlanta 1996 Olympic Games silver medalist in the women 4x400m race, Fatima Yusuf- Olukoju, in a video interview by AthleticsAfrica and monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA has said there is need to go back to the grassroots so as to develop budding talents that will excel for the country in the… August 22, 2020 In "Sports" Former Nigeria Track and Field athlete, Patience Itanyi, has called for a return to school sports if the country must excel at major championships. Speaking in an explosive interview on a radio station monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, the former coach asked for more female inputs in the national team setup.… July 4, 2020 In "Sports" Fatimat Yusuf-Olukoju has promised to take athletics to the next level in the state after being appointed chairperson of Kogi State Athletics Association by the state government.   The Atlanta 1996 silver medallist, who hails from the Kogi Central Senatorial District was handed a letter of appointment during the week,… July 19, 2020 In "Sports"