Police hold stolen cows’ buyers  Detectives have arrested an alleged notorious member of a human trafficking syndicate, Abubakar Habibu, terrorising Katsina State. The suspect, it was learnt, was arrested based on intelligence at a police check point on Kongolom, Daura Road on August 11, about 4:30a.m.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gambo Isah, said in a statement yesterday that the suspect had been on the police wanted list for human trafficking for a long time before he was arrested. Isah said the case of Abubakar had been under investigation by the command.  According to him, the suspect is specialised in conveying victims on motorcycles across the Nigerian boarder to Niger Republic.  He said: “Whenever they cross their victims to Niger Republic, they would then cross such victims to Libya and from there to Europe. “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to the commission of the offence, while efforts are ongoing to arrest other members of the syndicate.”  Also, a 40-year-old man, Abdulahi Seidu, was arrested at Gobirawa village for allegedly buying arrest of Seidu by the operatives of the State Intelligence Bureau (SIB), another suspect identified as Jafaru (50) was also apprehended.  The PPRO said, in the course of investigation, the two suspects confessed to have received the cows from the bandits at the Faskari Local Government Area, bordering Kaduna State with intent to dispose the cows off.  Isah, however, said investigation was still ongoing in the matter  Police have apprehended three teenage serial rapists who allegedly defiled and killed a 13-year-old girl in Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gambo Isah, disclosed this while parading the suspects before journalists at the state Police Command Headquarters in Katsina. Isah… August 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" …victim can no longer control her urinary system Police in Ogun State have arrested the Baale of Oose Agbedu Ajibawo village in Owode- Egbado area, Chief Rasheed Sholabi, for allegedly having unlawful carnal knowledge of his 15-year-old daughter (name withheld). The village head was arrested following a report by the… August 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Police in Ogun State have arrested a 44-year-old pastor, Oluwafemi Oyebola, for allegedly raping his biological daughter (name withheld). Oyebola, of the CAC Ogo Oluwa Parish, Owode-Egbado, was also accused of aborting pregnancy for the victim on three different occasions. In a statement issued Tuesday, the state Police Public Relations… July 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"