 Brent crude oil prices rose on Wednesday, lifted by U.S. producers shutting most of their offshore output in the Gulf of Mexico ahead of Hurricane Laura and optimism over China-U.S. trade talks.
But gains were capped amid renewed concern over the coronavirus pandemic, which has squeezed fuel demand, after reports from Europe and Asia of patients being re-infected with COVID-19, raising concerns about future immunity, reports Reuters.
Brent crude oil futures LCOc1 added 12 cents, or 0.3%, to $45.98 a barrel by 0335 GMT, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude CLc1 remained steady at $43.35 a barrel. Both benchmarks settled at a five-month high on Tuesday.
“The hurricane impact is short-term bullish, but that could be short-lived if the damage to the Texas and Louisiana coasts cripples demand for an extended time,” said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at OANDA in New York.
The U.S. energy industry on Tuesday was preparing for a major hurricane strike. Producers evacuated 310 offshore facilities and shut 1.56 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude output, 84% of Gulf of Mexico’s offshore production – near the 90% outage that Hurricane Katrina brought 15 years ago.
“Markets are currently pricing in a possible near-term catastrophic gasoline shortage,” said Stephen Innes, chief global markets strategist at AxiCorp.
Top U.S. and Chinese officials reaffirmed their commitment to a Phase 1 trade deal, which has seen China lagging on its obligations to buy American goods, potentially boosting flows between the world’s two largest oil consumers.
Further price support came from data from the American Petroleum Institute <API/S> showing U.S. crude oil stockpiles fell more than expected last week. The U.S. Energy Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Department of Energy, will release its own official inventory data later on Wednesday.
Still, downward pressure came from concern about demand after data showing U.S. consumer confidence has tumbled to its lowest in more than six years due to concern about coronavirus-induced job losses.  Crude oil prices remained steady on Monday as storms closed in on the Gulf of Mexico, shutting more than half the region's oil production, although prices were capped by ongoing concerns about fuel demand being sapped by coronavirus lockdowns. Brent futures LCOc1 slipped 2 cents, or 0.1%, to $44.33… August 24, 2020 In "Business" Oil prices climbed on Monday, supported by Saudi optimism on Asian demand and an Iraqi pledge to deepen supply cuts, although uncertainty over a deal to shore up the U.S. economic recovery capped gains. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude CLc1 futures rose 50 cents, or 1.2%, to $41.72… August 10, 2020 In "Business" Oil prices fell on Tuesday amid concerns that a surge in new coronavirus cases, especially in the United States, will hamper any recovery in fuel demand. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude CLc1 futures fell 54 cents, or 1.3%, to $40.09 a barrel at 0703 GMT, well off an… July 7, 2020 In "Business"