Police detectives have arrested seven suspects for allegedly killing four policemen during an attack on a bullion van in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Those arrested included a serving soldier and a dismissed soldier.  The bullion van was coming from Enugu State when it was attacked in Abakaliki on July 29, 2020, while the suspects were nabbed a few days later in Delta State. Apart from those killed, several others were injured in the attack.  Meanwhile, a situation report sighted by PRNigeria, said “during a serious manhunt by IRT detectives with technical intelligence   support from TIU arrested Alfred Robinson (45), a native of Gelegele Town in Ovia North Local Govern-ment Area of Edo State on August 1 in Asaba, Delta State”. During intensive follow up, six more alleged gang members were arrested by IRT detectives within 24 hours.  They are Sergeant Ayeni Samuel, a soldier serving in Ikeja, Lagos; Corporal Emeka Harrison, a dismissed soldier who had served in Maiduguri, Borno State; Emeka Illo, the alleged sponsor of the operation; and Abuchi Elijah Aka aka ‘Chime D Mosquito,’ an alleged informant for the robbers; and Ibanifiroi Ekiene, a native of Tombia community.  “Firearms recovered from the criminals include 12 undetonated improvised explosives, one GPMG, six rifles, 51 AK47 magazines, 1,620 ammunition, two robbed vehicles, breaking implements and charms. “All suspects, upon interrogation, confessed to the bullion van robbery in Ebonyi State. “The suspects also confessed that four out of the rifles recovered belong to the policemen they killed during the robbery,” the situation report stated. The suspects, it was learnt, are assisting the police to arrest the fleeing gang members  A crack team of Police detectives have arrested seven armed robbers, including a serving and a dismissed Soldier for alleged involvement in the robbery of a bullion van in Abakaliki, the capital of Ebonyi State, PRNigeria is reporting. The bullion van was moving from Enugu State to Ebonyi State when… August 3, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Nigerian Army yesterday in Enugu denied involvement of its personnel in last week’s botched but fatal bullion van heist where four policemen were killed at Ezzamgbo junction in Ebonyi State. The Army said the purported ‘soldiers’ allegedly arrested for bullion van robbery operation were not her personnel, but long… August 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Nigerian Army says that purported soldiers arrested for the bullion van robbery in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State are not its personnel. Col. Aliyu Yusuf, Deputy Director, Army Public Relations in 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, said this in a statement made available to newsmen on Wednesday in Enugu.… August 5, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"