 The 29-year-old reaches his highest position so far on the Artists 500 Chart with the release of his fifth studio album, Twice as Tall One of the defining musical trends of the last decade has been the growing influence of international artists in the U.S. Cross-continental collaborations are now routine, and American major-labels are increasingly open to signing artists with buzz abroad. Even U.S. radio, which is notoriously resistant to change, has made room for tuneful reggaeton from Colombia, impeccably choreographed pop from South Korea, and club-friendly cuts from Nigeria.
The 29-year-old Burna Boy, a versatile, urgent singer with a high-octane live show, is the latest act from Nigeria to grab the attention of U.S. listeners: He made his highest-ever appearance on the Rolling Stone Top 500 Artists chart this week, landing at Number 128 following the release of Twice as Tall, his fifth album, which is executive produced by the rapper-producer P. Diddy.
The Rolling Stone Artists 500 chart ranks the most-streamed artists of the week in the United States, taking into account audio streams across an artist’s entire catalog during the tracking period. Burna Boy pulled in a total of 14.8 million streams between August 14th and August 20th in the U.S.
The singer’s numbers for Twice as Tall show steady growth since last year’s Grammy-nominated African Giant, which has earned more than 100,000 album-equivalent units in the 13 months since its release. Twice as Tall debuted at Number 54 on the Top 200 Albums Chart, amassing 11.4 million audio streams Stateside, an increase of around 50 percent relative to African Giant‘s opening week of 8.5 million.
During Twice as Tall‘s first week, “Monsters You Made,” a bracing track featuring Coldplay’s Chris Martin, proved to be the album’s most popular song, earning more than a million audio streams in the U.S. It was followed by “Way Too Big,” a syncopated missile co-written by the super-producer Timbaland and the longtime Kanye West collaborator Mike Dean, and “Level Up (Twice as Tall),” the blunt album-opener, which each earned more than 850,000 streams.
These numbers reflect Burna Boy’s growing profile, which has expanded in the U.S. through a combination of relentless touring (pre-pandemic) and savvy collaborations with acts like Future, YG, and Naughty by Nature, among others.
“One thing that’s constant [in my career] is growth,” Burna Boy told Rolling Stone in 2019. “It’s not an up and down thing. I climbed every step. I don’t skip steps — I’m too heavy to skip steps.”
*Courtesy: Rolling Stone  On August 11, 2020, Nigerian superstar, Burna Boy, had a conversation with Lanre Bakare of Guardian UK. During the conversation, he revealed that his standard of pan-Africanism and African unity is late Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi. A section of the article reads, "In past interviews, Burna Boy regularly raises the… August 15, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Top notch Nigerian music critic, A&R Executive, Ogaga Sakapide, who has worked with top Nigerian music stars and recently a part of fast rising music sensation, Chike's debut album, ‘Boo of the Booless”, has shared his experience putting the body of work together. "To be honest, Chike did the heavy… June 18, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" In 1985, a bunch of unsung talents left the country for China to participate in the then FIFA Kodak U-16 World Cup with little or no hope of making any impact at the event. However, on August 11, 1985, the news was everywhere that Nigeria defeated Germany 2-0 in the… August 20, 2020 In "Editorial"