•Asks FG to act fast The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) under the leadership of Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, the Sultan of Sokoto has raised the alarm that the crisis in the southern part of Kaduna State was turning into a serious ethno-religious crisis. This is as the Islamic body asked the Federal Government to act immediately to stop the problem from engulfing the whole state. The JNI in a statement made available to newsmen in Kaduna yesterday, said they have “observed carefully with serious concern the unfortunate unfolding events of bloodletting and serial killings, as well as the resultant inflammatory commentaries being aired, which are utterly condemnable in their entirety. “We strongly believe that the politically-driven crisis is being deliberately turned into ethno-religious conflict of worrisome dimension. “Thus, we call for caution and restraint from all parties involved. It should however be noted that ethnoreligious conflict isn’t easily manageable and hence, we must all rise to the occasion to forestall its recurrence in Kaduna State, as it is often said, a stitch in time saves nine!” The statement signed by the Secretary-General of JNI, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, also said: “It is very clear that some interest groups cried wolf than the bereaved in the present circumstance and thus, the need for government to quickly act before such interest groups exacerbate the already precarious situation that could jeopardize frantic efforts aimed at restoring law and order through dialogue and commitment for peace with all relevant stakeholders in the state.” JNI said: “We have nonetheless observed with dismay the unguarded utterances of some citizens including elder statesmen, who through the print, electronic and social media, are at best should be doing everything possible to curtail the tensed situation but instead prefer to serve as conflict entrepreneurs in exasperating the already worsened situation. “Therefore, all hopes should not be lost in tackling the matter. Government should do more and whosoever is found wanting should accordingly be brought to book, as Nigerians are tired of the lingering crises bedeviling the Southern Kaduna region and by extension the entire country. “In addition, government must do everything possible to bring an end to the fracas and change the narrative of violence to that of peace. It is time that culprits be identified and punished, so as to serve as deterrent. It is hardly imaginable that such dastardly acts could still reoccur in Kaduna State; despite several efforts to bring peace and harmony through the good works of the Kaduna Peace Commission and the International Centre for Interfaith Peace and Harmony (ICIPH), hosted in Kaduna, Kaduna State, in collaboration with the JNI National Headquarters and the Christian Council of Nigeria, which the Executive Governor of Kaduna State personally commissioned sometimes in August, 2016. “Hence, the JNI is seriously perturbed by such re-occurrences particularly that, the JNI National Headquarters is hosted in Kaduna State. “The ICIPH, which has its head office in Kaduna with the Sultan of Sokoto co-Chairing it, is ever ready to partner with the Kaduna State government in finding lasting solutions for the restoration of peace.”  The Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Christian Pilgrims Commission (NCPC) and Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Northern Nigeria, Rev. Yakubu Pam has said he will work together with Jama'atu Nasiru Islam (JNI) and Mayiti Allah Cattle Breeders Association to end the protracted killings in Southern Kaduna. He… August 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The United States and the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Saad III, yesterday decried the level of killings in the northern part of the country. They called on the Federal Government and the various state governments in the area to wake up to their responsibilities. The U.S. condemned killings of… June 18, 2020 In "Opinion" Barely 24 hours after meeting with a former Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, again met with the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, on Monday.   The meeting was held behind closed-door at Sir Kashim Ibrahim House, Kaduna.   After the… August 25, 2020 In "News"