A truck has killed a motorcyclist and his passenger at Unguwan Lambu in Keffi Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. The passenger, said to be a lawyer, is identified as Chiadikoli Ezike.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ramhan Nansel, said the accident occurred on Saturday. Nansel said the truck driver, Jamilu Ahmed, had been arrested. Witnesses said that the driver crushed the commercial motorcyclist and his passenger, which led to their death.  The lawyer, Ezike, was pronounced dead by doctors at the Federal Medical Centre, Keffi, where he was taken for medical attention.  “Police in Nasarawa State have apprehended a truck driver, Jamilu Ahmed, for reckless driving at Unguwan Lambu on the Keffi-Akwanga Road. “The accident occurred at noon on Saturday, when a DAF truck driven recklessly by Jamilu Ahmed, knocked down a motorcyclist and his passenger.  “The victims sustained various degrees of injury. The police rushed them to the Federal Medical Centre Keffi, where a doctor confirmed their death. The suspect is in police custody and investigation is ongoing,” the PPRO said.  A hit and run driver in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, has overrun a commercial motorcyclist, killing him instantly. The incident occurred on the flyover bridge along Murtala Muhammed road, Ilorin. An eyewitness said the accident which occurred about 4.10pm was as a result of over speeding by both the… August 29, 2020 In "News" Two motorcyclists were on Friday night crushed to death in an accident involving two motorcycles and a Leyland truck opposite Forte Oil filling station around Kotopo on the Abeokuta-lbadan road. Mr Babatunde Akinbiyi, the Spokesperson, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), confirmed the incident to the News Agency of… May 1, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Kidnappers killed a driver, Adamu Usman, and abducted 13 passengers on the Shafa-Abakpa-Umaisha road in Nasarawa’s Toto Local Government Area. According to reports, the deceased died on Tuesday night while being treated at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital after being shot three times in the belly. The event occurred… May 19, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"