Worried by the impact of the global Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic on low and middleincome countries with about 75 per cent of young people work in the informal economy with no job security and little or social protection, Nestle Nigeria has restated commitment to empower the young ones.  To achieve this objective, the firm said youth employment and employability which are the challenges confronting the young ones must be urgently addressed.  Thus, Nestle Nigeria is partnering the Swiss Embassy in Nigeria, the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) to invest in the education and capacity development of youth in order to reduce the burden of unemployment training and organising technical skill acquisition programmes for the youths.  Towards this end, Nestlé Nigeria as a leading company in the foods and beverages industry has consistently invested in youth empowerment by helping to build their employability and entrepreneurship capabilities.  Under its pet-project, the Nestlé Needs Youth Initiative, the company said that over 13,000 young Nigerians have been impacted in the past two years in various activities such as career fairs, entrepreneurship training and mentorship and technical skills training, as well as equipping youth to find decent employment or profitable enterprise.  Therefore, as part of activities to commemorate the International Youth Day 2020, the Managing Director, Nestlé Nigeria, Mr. Mauricio Alarcon, said that the company established a virtual internship programme in line with Nestlé Needs YOUths focuses on reducing youth unemployment across the globe.  He added: “It is clear that youth have a critical role to play in building thriving, resilient communities. We believe that communities cannot survive or be successful if they fail to create opportunities for future generations.  “Through Nestlé needs Youth, we aim to help young people access economic opportunities. We also want to equip the next generation of employees, and entrepreneurs, regardless of their field or level of expertise.”  “This is important for us as a business, because young people are the employees, who will keep our company dynamic and competitive in the future; they are the future farmers who will grow the crops we need, and the future entrepreneurs, who will help us to reach new markets. This is one of the ways we create shared value.”  The programme, which according to him is open to qualified undergraduates from higher institutions of learning, however, seeks to transfer required international skills for the workplace.  Alarcon also noted that the Nestlé Needs Youth Programmes in Nigeria: In Nigeria, and the Nestlé Needs YOUth Initiatives focused on three areas of action, which are “Employment and Employability, Agripreneurship and Entrepreneurship,” adding that these initiatives comprise Technical Training, My Own Business (MYOWBU),Youth Agripreneurship Development Programme (YADIS), and Employability Skills Building programmes.  The priogrammes, he said, were being facilitated in collaboration with other stakeholders including the Lagos State Government, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) and several tertiary institutions, including the Lagos Business School (LBS) geared at equipping the graduates for post-COVID-19 economic recovery. 