Armed men yesterday invaded Prince Academy in Kaduna and abducted scores of Junior Secondary School (JSS 3) students preparing for their examinations.  The gunmen were also said to have abducted some residents of Damba-Kasaya village a community where the school is located. Damba-Kasaya community is located in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State.  One person was also killed when the villagers, who were said to have been tired of the incessant attacks on their community, mobilised against the bandits. The bandits were said to have arrived the community about 8a.m. on motorcycles and in their numbers.  They abducted many of the villagers before proceeding to Prince Academy to abduct the Junior Secondary School (JSS3) students who were receiving lessons in preparation for their examinations. A resident of the community, Bawa Wakili, said the bandits came in large numbers “like they always do” and were shooting sporadically in different directions, making many of the villagers to take to their heels.  The bandits were also said to have destroyed musical and public address systems worth thousands of naira in Aminchi Baptist Church, located within the community. Wakili said he even relocated to Damba-Kasaya a couple of months ago after Fulani herdsmen sacked  his village, Rumana Gbagyi also in Chikun Local Government Area.  He said: “They abducted many people in the village. Then, they went to Prince Academy and abducted many of the students who were receiving lessons for their JSS3 exams. “I cannot say how many people were kidnapped, but they went away with many people.”  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached to confirm the incident.  Some students of Prince Academy in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State have been abducted. The students who were preparing for their examination were abducted on Monday morning. The gunmen were said to have first raided houses in Damba-Kasaya community in Chikun LGA before heading to the school. Bawa… August 24, 2020 In "Education" Dare devil kidnappers, who wanted to abduct some residents in Kaduna State on Thursday, shot dead two persons before fleeing into the bush. The diseased were allegedly shot dead Thursday night when the kidnappers in their numbers invaded the community but were challenged by the youths who mobilised themselves and… August 29, 2020 In "News" Armed men have abducted a policewoman and five others in a suburb of Kaduna metropolis.   The incident occurred at Janruwa, on the popular Patrick Ibrahim Yakowa Way in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. It was learnt that the attack occurred late on Saturday when the majority… July 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"