A senator who represented Kaduna Central senatorial district in the 8th senate, Shehu Sani, yesterday charged northern leaders to come up with a conference that would address the problems of the region first and stop focusing on the 2023 general election.  He said what should be paramount to every leader in the northern part of the country was the security of its people and its unity of  purpose, which he said the region was long known for cosidering the daily shedding of blood and raping of women by terrorists.  Sani spoke in Jos, Plateau State, during a media interaction with some journalists in the state capital.  According to the senator, “Northern leaders and the people of the north need to set a conference of its own to look into the fault lines to address its problems and challenges of the region. The region must mend it’s house, because the structure is staggering and is threatening the peace of  the whole country.  He noted that northern Nigeria needed to unite regardless of political parties to ensure that insecurity was tackled, adding that political leaders and the elite must preach peace at all times, we must also revolt against merchants of crisis. “Of immediate importance is peace, security and unity. The northern part of Nigeria today is evidently disunited.  Divisive forces are in control of the affairs of the state. People in the north are more polarised along religious and ethnic sentiments than it has ever been in the history of our country. People are ready to kill and die in the name of religion and ethnicity and are not ready to die in the name of their own country.  “Political leaders, who are exploiting the sensibility and sensitivity of our people in order to re-enforce their political fortresses or stabilise their political thrust must be resisted.  That is the fact, because our people are dying, our people are being killed every day, but we need to stand up and fight this divisive forces for unity and peace and for the future of our country,” he passionately stated.  Presidency: South-East predicates demand on equity, fairness     FELIX NWANERI reports on the quest by the people of the South-East to produce Nigeria’s next president in 2023 despite political maneuverings across the various political parties by other geopolitical zones and power blocs   L ess than three years to… July 13, 2020 In "Politics" The best way to illustrate the North’s present precarious socio- economic position in Nigeria today is that of the proverbial rabbit caught in the crossfire lights of an oncoming vehicle. The region currently faces multiple threats to its security, the most pronounced of which many observers say could… August 4, 2020 In "Opinion" 2023: Storm over Daura’s call for jettisoning of zoning   Permutations ahead of the next general election has dominated the political space of late, but the proposal by President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew, Mamman Daura that competence rather than zoning should decide who emerges the next president seems to have rekindled… August 3, 2020 In "Politics"