The Lagos State House of Assembly has summoned the Chief of Staff to Governor Babajide Sanwoolu of the state, Mr. Tayo Ayinde, the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Commissioner For Special Duties and management of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) over the whereabouts of the three helicopters belonging to the state government.  Raising the under Matter of Urgent Public Importance during plenary on Monday 24th August, 2020, the Chief Whip of the Assembly, Hon. Mojisola Miranda stated that the offices and MDAs in-charge of the helicopters should be written to and that the Assembly should know the agreement between the state government and Caverton Helicopters that is managing the helicopters.  “If you may recall, in 2007, the House of Assembly passed a bill for the establishment of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) for the state government to equip and strengthen the security agencies in the state.  “In 2015, three helicopters were bought under Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to strengthen se- curity in the state. But, the helicopters are nowhere to be found now.  “I will want us to look at it and get the concerned parties to tell the House the location of the three helicopters to see if they are just lying fallow or if the state government has entered into an agreement with an entity on the equipment and see to what extent the agreement has been working,” she said.  The Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa pointed out that the helicopters were meant for dual purposes, and that they were meant to be used for security purposes and for commercial purposes. Obasa emphasised that the House should just try to know what has accrued to the state from the helicopters so far, saying that this was the first time the Assembly would be talking about the equipment.  “What we have said so far has nothing to do with the image of the state or the Assembly. What the Chief Whip has done is not too much. We need to know what has happened to the helicopters,” he said.  In his contribution, Hon. Rotimi Olowo (Shomolu 1) said that the House approved the purchase of two helicopters during the era of former governor Babatunde Raji Fashola, Olowo added that a commissioner told the House then that they had an agreement with Caverton Nigeria Limited to operate the helicopters so that the state government would make some money from the operations.  He revealed that one helicopter was bought under former governor Akinwunmi Ambode making it three, and that it was important to know how they had been managed so far and where the money was.  Also speaking, Hon. Fatai Mojeed (Ibeju Lekki 1) said that the assets were purchased for security purposes and to generate money for the state government. He added that the House needed to know what has happened to the helicopters and that a committee should be set up to look into the matter.  This was corroborated by Hon. Abiodun Tobun (Epe 1), who said that the helicopters should be at the reach of the state for security purposes, probity and accountability and that revenue from the equipment should reflect in the account books of the state.  The recent measly reprimand of the service chiefs by President Muhammadu Buhari over their failure to curb worsening insecurity in various parts of the country and their abysmal performance, nay crass display of incompetence, can best be described as too little, coming a bit late.   Though President Buhari’s remark… July 14, 2020 In "Editorial" …warns airlines over doctoring CVR   The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) has said that inappropriate landing techniques used and non-adherence to company procedures by pilots of a Caverton Helicopter chartered by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo led to the accident in Okene, Kogi State.   This is coming as the Commissioner… July 29, 2020 In "News" ...says Ayinde is a visionary public officer As encomiums continue to pour in for the Chief of Staff to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Mr Tayo Ayinde, the Chairman of Executive Group and Board Member, Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF), Dr Ayo Ogunsan, has penned down a congratulatory birthday message to… August 24, 2020 In "News"