 Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin  Deputy Governor of Kwara State and Chairman of the Technical Committee on COVID-19, Mr Kayode Alabi, has tested negative for the virus.
Chief Press Secretary to the Governor and Spokesman, Kwara State COVID-19 Technical Committee, Rafiu Ajakaye, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday in Ilorin, the state capital.
The statement stated: “On Friday evening, August 28, 2020, the result of a repeat test by His Excellency the Deputy Governor of Kwara State and Chairman of the Technical Committee on COVID-19, Mr. Kayode Alabi, came back negative. This means the Deputy Governor is free of the virus and would be back to his desk.
“The government thanks members of the public for their support and prayers, and the medical team for their hard work. The government equally wishes all of our remaining patients, including Her Excellency the wife of the Deputy Governor, safe recovery like the Deputy Governor, while calling on everyone to not let down their guards as every step is being taken to flatten the curve of transmission.”   The Kwara State Deputy Governor, who is also the Chairman, Technical Committee on COVID-19, Mr Kayode Alabi, has tested negative for the deadly virus. According to his Chief Press Secretary, Modupe Joel, the Deputy Governor took the test on Thursday alongside his staff as part of measures to curb the… July 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Kwara State government has lauded corporate bodies and individuals for their invaluable contributions towards the fight against the Coronavirus pandemic.   The Deputy Governor and Chairman Kwara State Covid-19 Technical Committee, Mr Kayode Alabi, thanked the donors while receiving the donation of two motorised modular fumigators by the Ooni of… June 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Ilorin No fewer than 50 people were arrested in the early hours of Saturday at a night club in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital, by the state Technical Committee on COVID-19.   The Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee on COVID- 19 in the state, Dr Femi Oladiji, disclosed this at the… July 19, 2020 In "News"