The Oba of Benin, Omo N’ Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare N’Ogidgan II, yesterday thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for endorsing and presenting his party flag to the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) candidate in the Edo State governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, insisting that the Benin Palace remains neutral in the politics of the state.  The highly revered Oba stated this when he received the APC’s candidate and the governors elected on the platform of APC, who visited him in his Palace in Benin City, the Edo state capital, during the flag off of the party’s governorship campaign in the state yesterday.  Oba Ewuare who, along with his Palace chiefs, prayed and gave Ize-Iyamu the traditional blessing said that even though he was elated over the President’s endorsement of the APC’s candidate, he explained that the Palace of the Oba of Benin does not get involved in partisan politics.  Oba Ewuare II prayed for peace during and after the state governorship election slated for September 19, advising all stakeholders to play by the rules.  Earlier while speaking, Ize- Iyamu said he was in the Palace, in line with the Benin tradition and culture to inform the Oba that the APC’s leaders were in his domain, Benin City, for the flag off of the party’s governorship election and requested for his blessing and prayer.  Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu yesterday traded blames over the bloody attacks by suspected political thugs loyal to both camps of the PDP and the opposition APC in Benin City, the state capital.   The groups… July 26, 2020 In "News" Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, Oba of Benin, says “godfatherism” and “consensus candidate” must be eradicated from the politics of Edo state. In a statement on Thursday, the oba said these two “political vices” are antithetical to the fundamental basis of democracy. Osagie Ize-Iyamu, a governorship… June 19, 2020 In "Politics" Nigeria's leading political parties – the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) – yesterday traded words over the bloody clash between their supporters in Benin, the Edo State capital, at the weekend. The clash erupted outside the palace of Oba Ewuare II of Benin Kingdom,… July 27, 2020 In "News"