 President Muhmmadu Buhari had a closed-door meeting with President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo, late Sunday night at the Aso Rock Presidential Villa, Abuja.
The meeting was made public at about 11:36pm on Sunday by Personal Assistant to the President on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, on his Twitter handle.
“President @MBuhari receives Ghanian President H.E. @NAkufoAddo tonight in his official residence at the State House, Abuja,” the tweet said.
Ahmad, who did not elaborate on purpose of the meeting, however, posted a picture of both presidents on a walk.
Although clues as to why Buhari hosted his Ghanaian counterpart were not yet out as at the time of filing this report, there were indications from Presidency sources that it might be in relation to the recent diplomatic face-off between the two West African countries.
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) had recently attended an Extraordinary session of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in Ghana, after which he addressed the Nigerian community in Ghana on the row.
Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila also travelled to Accra recently to hold talks with his Ghanaian counterpart on the crisis.  Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), will leave Abuja, the nation’s capital Tuesday morning for Accra, Ghana to attend an Extraordinary Summit of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) on the situation in Mali. Prof. Osinbajo, who is representing President Muhammadu Buhari at the summit, will join other… September 15, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is currently meeting with former President Goodluck Jonathan at the State House, Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agenda of the meeting is unknown to journalists as at the time of filing this report. NAN, however, gathered that Jonathan would update the president on… July 21, 2020 In "Top Stories" President Muhammadu Buhari is currently holding a closed door meeting with the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. It was learned that the meeting might be related to the current security situation in the country. The security situation in the country is deteriorating. No fewer… July 20, 2020 In "Top Stories"