The Federal Government has apologised for its tweet ordering all account holders in the country to obtain and fill self-certification forms. In a directive contained in a series of tweets (now deleted) on Thursday, the federal government said each account holder must submit the filled forms in their respective financial institutions. In another tweet yesterday, it acknowledged that its earlier tweets were misleading and the notice by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) does not apply to everybody. “We apologise for the misleading tweets (now deleted) that went up yesterday, regarding the completion of self-certification forms by reportable persons. The message contained in the @ firsNigeria notice does not apply to everybody. FIRS will issue appropriate clarification shortly,” it tweeted. FIRS on its official handle @firsNigeria, however, clarified the information, noting that the directive was for ‘reportable persons,’ with accounts in ‘Reportable Financial Institutions.’ The FIRS tweet reads: “This is to clarify the publication for financial institutions account holders in Nigeria to complete the self-certification form, pursuant to the Income Tax (Common Reporting Standard) Regulations 2019 which is for the fulfillment of Automatic Exchange of Information Requirements. “The Self Certification form is basically to be administered on reportable persons holding accounts in financial institutions that are regarded as “Reportable Financial Institutions” under the CRS. “Reportable persons are often non-residents and other persons who have a residence for tax purposes in more than one jurisdiction or country. “Financial institutions are expected to administer the self -certification form on such account holders when the information at its disposal indicates that the account holder is a person resident for tax purpose in more than one jurisdictions.   The Federal Government has apologised for its tweet ordering all account holders in the country to obtain and fill self-certification forms. In a directive contained in a series of tweets (now deleted) on Thursday, the Federal Government said each account holder must submit the filled forms in their respective… September 18, 2020 In "Business" Every dime of Stamp Duty illegally collected by the Nigeria Postal Services (NIPOST) from 2016 till date will be collected, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has declared in series of tweets yesterday. The tax collecting agency, in addition, warned that anyone found culpable of misappropriating the funds in the… August 5, 2020 In "News" ...says CBN opened collection account   The raging tussle between the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) over Stamp Duty collection continued yesterday with fresh revelation by NIPOST that the payment account was opened by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). NIPOST stated that it does… August 10, 2020 In "News"