Rangers Manager, Steven Gerrard, has rued the injury sustained by Super Eagles new boy, Joe Aribo, after he was ruled out of actions for six weeks following an ankle injury he sustained.  Gerrard’s fear was heightened by the loss of four of his players Leon Balogun, Ryan Jack, Brandon Barker and Alfredo Morelos to injuries.  Record-breaking Rangers wrote themselves into the history books with a seventh consecutive clean sheet in a 4-0 win over Dundee United.  “I’ve been really clear that we need to add so I think we maybe need to try to accelerate that,” he said. “Going off what I have just seen in the treatment room, there is definitely going to be two, if not three, missing for a couple of weeks.  We need to add pretty quickly so that our numbers are OK. “Leon Balogun felt tightness in his quad. Hopefully we’ve caught that one early.  We could have risked that one but there was no need as we had Fil Helander ready to come in.  “Ryan has a calf problem, which we’ll need to scan to see the extent of that. Brandon has done a hamstring, which is normally at least a couple of weeks.  Rangers midfielder Joe Aribo has joined Kenneth Omeruo in the list of Super Eagles players that have been ruled out of the friendlies against Cote d’Ivoire and Tunisia next month. The midfielder has been ruled out of action for six weeks after he suffered an ankle injury and will also… September 12, 2020 In "Sports" Charles Ogundiya Super Eagles duo of Leon Balogun and Joe Aribo, were some of the top performers for Rangers in their 1-0 win against Aberdeen in the opening game of the new Scottish League season on Saturday. Balogun proved fatigued was for the fainthearted as he impressed on his… August 2, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles head coach, Gernot Rohr, has applauded the new found form of Leon Balogun with his new Scottish side, Rangers. The defender has been in top form since joining Steven Gerrard led side at the start of the current campaign and Rohr has tipped him for a recall to… August 24, 2020 In "Sports"