 Disruption to schooling stemming from the COVID-19 epidemic will cause a skill loss that could result in a 1.5% drop in global economic output for the rest of this century, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) estimated.
For the United States, that will represent an economic loss of $15.3 trillion, the OECD said in a report published on Tuesday, with the bill rising higher still if disruption to education extends into the next academic year, reports Reuters.
“Learning loss will lead to skill loss, and the skills people have relate to their productivity,” the report said, explaining the forecast drop in global GDP.
Governments around the world closed schools to curb the spread of COVID-19, in most cases for around 10 weeks, or one third of a year of schooling.
One impact was to widen the gaps in educational opportunities between the rich and poor. Children with internet access, computers, and supportive families fared better.
“Students from privileged backgrounds … could find their way past closed school doors to alternative learning opportunities. Those from disadvantaged backgrounds often remained shut out when their schools shut down,” the report said.
Even as schools in many countries re-open, big challenges remain for education, according to the OECD report. Schools must navigate how to re-open without causing a new spike in infections.
With economies contracting, there is a risk education budgets will shrink, the report said. And universities will have to reinvent themselves so they stay attractive to students even when they can longer offer the traditional campus experience.  • As struggling schools may go bankrupt • I won't go back to teaching after lockdown –Mrs. Grace • ‘Parents approach school’s management for refund of WASSCE fee’ • Exam cancellation may force students to neighbouring countries –NAPPS   The prolonged closure of schools in Nigeria due to the Covid-19… July 19, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine" The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has admitted that the global economic landscape challenged by the coronavirus outbreak and associated containment measures has put a sizeable number of small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) in dire financial straits. It also flayed the difficult financial situation, saying that the… September 3, 2020 In "Business" …says pandemic’ll push 5m Nigerians into poverty in 2020 Nigeria’s banking system is at risk of being destabilised as the coronavirus (COVID- 19) pandemic triggers what might be the worst recession since the 1980s for Africa’s largest economy, the World Bank has said. In its latest Nigeria Development Update (NDU)… June 26, 2020 In "News"