 Liverpool have agreed a deal to sign the midfielder Thiago Alcântara from Bayern Munich for €30m (£27.3m).
Liverpool had been reluctant to pay that much for a 29-year-old with one year on his contract but have accepted the need to meet Bayern’s demands to land Jürgen Klopp’s key target.
The Spain international is happy with the personal terms on offer at Liverpool and keen to move to the Premier League champions despite interest from Manchester United which never advanced to a bid, reports The Guardian.
Thiago made clear he wanted to leave Bayern and his preferred destination has always been Liverpool. He is an admirer of the team’s style under Klopp.
Thiago’s arrival would clear the way for Giorginio Wijnaldum to join Barcelona provided a suitable offer is received.
Thiago, whose father is the 1994 Brazilian World Cup winner Mazinho, joined Bayern in 2013 from Barcelona and has made 233 appearances for the Bundesliga champions. His younger brother, Rafinha, is still at the Camp Nou.
Liverpool have made one signing this summer, the left-back Kostas Tsimikas from Olympiakos for a fee in the region of £11.75m.  Liverpool reportedly entered into a fouryear deal with Thiago Alcantara.   Jurgen Klopp’s side are on track to complete a £ 27m transfer for the Bayern Munich star.   Thiago Alcantara has been with Bayern Munich since 2013Crédits: Getty Images – Getty According to RMC Sport, Thiago has already said… August 17, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich midfielder Thiago Alcantara has reportedly said his goodbyes to his teammates after agreeing a four-year deal with Liverpool. The Reds are keen on striking an agreement with Bayern for the 29-year-old as Jurgen Klopp looks to bolster his options in the middle of the park, reports mirror.co.uk. And,… August 16, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United have reportedly identified Bayern Munich midfielder Thiago Alcantara as a potential transfer target. Throughout this week, the playmaker has been heavily linked with a summer switch to Liverpool before the beginning of the next campaign. The most recent claims suggest that the Spaniard, who has a year left… July 6, 2020 In "Sports"