Armed men have abducted the Chairman of Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Hon. Katuka Humble, in Kaduna.  A source said the incident occurred on Sunday as Humble was being conveyed on a bike to his farm, located somewhere around Kiduni village in Chikun Local Government Area of the state.  According to the source, the chairman normally disguises with a bike to his farm to confuse the kidnappers that normally operate in the area. The bandits were said to have opened fire at the chairman and the motorcyclist.  The motorcycle rider was killed on the spot, before the gunmen took Humble away. “The chairman was kidnapped on his way to the farm on Sunday. The farm is located somewhere around Kiduni in Chikun Local Government Area. I understand that a bike man was taking him to the farm.  The bandits shot at them and killed the bike man and kidnapped the chairman,” the source said. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Mohammed Jalige, was yet to speak on the abduction.  The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) yesterday raised the alarm over the continued detention of a local government chairman and JSS 3 students abducted by kidnappers some time ago in the state.   A statement by the union made available to newsmen in Kaduna said it had “been over one… October 7, 2020 In "News" Dare devil kidnappers, who wanted to abduct some residents in Kaduna State on Thursday, shot dead two persons before fleeing into the bush. The diseased were allegedly shot dead Thursday night when the kidnappers in their numbers invaded the community but were challenged by the youths who mobilised themselves and… August 29, 2020 In "News" Gunmen suspected to be bandits abducted 21 farmers in Kaduna State at the weekend. The abduction occurred at Udawa village in the Chikun Local Government Area, not far from the Birnin-Gwari Road.   It was learnt that 17 of those abducted, including four others who sustained various degrees of injuries… September 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"