…eight suspects arrested  Police in Ogun State have arrested eight members of the notorious Black Axe confraternity during a procession to mourn one of their members. The suspects were arrested last Thursday at Ogijo in Sagamu area of the state.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said in a statement in Abeokuta yesterday that members of the group, during the procession, shot a 16-year-old boy, Onome Iduru, in the stomach.  The PPRO said that after shooting Iduru, the suspected cult members dispossessed him of his mobile phone. Oyeyemi added that the cultists went on to unleash terror on the community following which a report was lodged at the Ogijo Police Station.  He said: “Upon the report, the DPO, Ogijo Division, CSP Muhammed Baba, led his men to the scene where eight members of the violent group were arrested.  “A banner designed with the group insignia to announce the death of their member was recovered from them while the  injured victim was taken to a hospital for treatment.” Oyeyemi listed the suspects as Olatunji Opeyemi, Ayuba Oduola, Sobowale Abiodun, Sobowale Sunday, Adelowo Olalekan, Kareem Lanre, Emmanuel Adebisi and Tobiloba Wasiu.  The PPRO disclosed that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation.  Police in Anambra State have apprehended a 16-year-old secondary schoolboy, Echezoma Metu, with a double-barrelled gun.   The suspect was said to have hidden the gun inside his school compound at Igboukwu community.   T he police also recovered two pump action guns, 10 machetes, five axes, two daggers, three… September 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Detectives have arrested 17 suspected teenage hoodlums terrorising residents of Lagos State. The arrest was part of efforts of the police to neutralise various groups of deadly armed hoodlums, cultists and miscreants, fond of causing pains and agonies to innocent residents of the state. The suspects are Afolabi Abeeb (18),… September 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Police in Ogun State have arrested two fake soldiers suspected to be members of a robbery syndicate terrorising motorists on the Sagamu-Benin Expressway. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, said in a statement in Abeokuta yesterday that the suspects - Joseph Uzor and Obadeyi Quadri - were… September 25, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"