President Muhammadu Buhari has indicated that there may be need for Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), at the behest of their Chairman, President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana, to confer again to discuss outstanding grey areas in the Mali political situation.  The President spoke after receiving briefing at the State House, Abuja, yesterday from ECOWAS Special Envoy to Mali, former President Goodluck Jonathan. Mali has appointed a civilian as Interim President, who will stay in office for 18 months, and lead the country back to constitutional order, after the military had taken over power in the country.  That was part of irreducible demands by West African leaders before sanctions imposed on the country could be lifted. However, according to Jonathan, the military leaders were yet to satisfy ECOWAS’ demand of a full civilian as Vice President, and what his roles would be in government.  That position is currently being held by a serving military officer, who was also one of the leaders of the take-over.  Buhari counselled the Special Envoy to present a formal report to President Akufo-Addo of Ghana, “who will then write us officially, and we then determine the next steps.”  The President said with about two-thirds of Mali currently under occupation by terrorists, “the priority of the military should be to secure their country,” rather than hold on to power.   The federal government has expressed support for the resolution of the Authority of Heads of State and Governments of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), insisting on revert to civil rule even for the proposed transitional government. Vice-PresidentYemiOsinbajo stated this on Tuesday during an interview with journalists shortly… September 17, 2020 In "News" ...backs ECOWAS’ position on return to constitutional order President Muhammadu Buhari has advocated the sustenance of sanctions and pressures on the military junta in Mali by the African Union (AU), United Nations and the ECOWAS in order to force a return to constitutional order. This came as the President threw… August 21, 2020 In "News" Chairman of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of ECOWAS, President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic has said the sub-regional organisation will do all it could to mitigate the political crisis in Mali, after many hours of consultations in the nation's capital, Bamako, on Thursday. The meeting, attended… July 25, 2020 In "News"