 Police have declared a major incident in Birmingham city centre after officers were called to reports of multiple stabbings.
West Midlands Police say officers were called to reports of a stabbing in the city centre at 12:30am on Sunday, reports Sky News.
In a statement, the force said: “We immediately attended, along with colleagues from the ambulance service.
“A number of other stabbings were reported in the area shortly after.
“We are aware of a number of injured people, but at the moment we are not in a position to say how many or how serious.
“However, all emergency services are working together at the scene, and making sure that those who are injured receive medical care.
“This has been declared a major incident.
“Work is still going on to establish what has happened, and could take some time before we are in a position to confirm anything.
“At this early stage it would not be appropriate to speculate on the causes of the incident.”
Officers set up a cordon at the junction of Hurst Street – a popular nightlife area in the city centre – and Bromsgrove Street.
Police urged people to stay calm, saying the response would be ongoing “for some time” and cordons were in place.  At least 25 people have been killed and 2,500 were injured in a huge explosion in the Lebanese capital Beirut, according to the country's health minister. The prime minister has also called it a "big catastrophe" and vowed for those responsible to pay the price for what has happened, reports Sky… August 4, 2020 In "Top Stories" Three people have been shot during a third night of unrest in the US city of Kenosha that was sparked by the police shooting of a black man, according to US media reports. Kenosha County Sheriff David Beth told the New York Times that one person had been killed.… August 26, 2020 In "News" Anger over the shooting of a Black man by police spilled into the streets of Kenosha for a second night Monday, with police again firing teargas at hundreds of protesters who defied a curfew, threw bottles and shot fireworks at law enforcement guarding the courthouse. The south-eastern Wisconsin city became… August 25, 2020 In "News"