A 67-year-old man, James Olajoyetan, arrested for allegedly defiling a 12-year-old girl, has told detectives attached to the Lagos State Police Command that he committed the act after a pastor cast a spell on him.  The suspect was said to have allegedly defiled the girl when she came to celebrate Sallah with her visually impaired grandfather at the Ejigbo area of Lagos. Olajoyetan, a commercial cyclist, was alleged to have defiled the girl four times since she came to visit.  He said: “I had a disagreement with a pastor working with Christ Apostolic Church, Kajola. He accused me of being instrumental to his leaving the church. Six months ago, he boasted that he would place a spiritual load on my head and ensure I was publicly disgraced. Since then, I didn’t know what came over me. They claimed I raped the girl four times, but it was only once.  My wife died in 2005. I have six children; the first is 35 years while the last is 17 years. I’m still shocked that I could lay with a child that is much younger than my last child. When she came in, I gave her N100 and she  hugged me. At that point, I lost my sense of judgement.” It was learnt that the suspect, once defiled the girl in her grandfather’s one-room apartment.  He was further alleged to have gagged her to prevent her from shouting so as not to alert the blind grandfather. Olajoyetan, at the weekend, called the victim, pretending to send her on an errand.   Suspect not known to us, says union   A suspected serial rapist, Hope Chidiebere, has claimed to be the secretary of the Scripture Union, Port Harcourt, Rivers State.     The suspect was nabbed for allegedly defiling a six-year-old girl. Chidiebere, who was hired by the parents of the victim… July 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The General Overseer of Grate Mercy Deliverance Ministry, Pastor Maureen Martins, 45, has been arrested for drugging pregnant teenage girls, inducing them into labour and then selling their babies. Maureen, a mother of two, who is also a trained nurse, was arrested at her church, located at No. 3 Giwa… July 4, 2020 In "Feature" ...'he says I mustn't date anyone else' On June 15, 24-year-old Blessing (real name withheld) walked into the office of Advocates for Children and Vulnerable Persons Network (ACVPN), located at the Oshodi area of Lagos, to tell the horrid story of how her father had been violating her for years.… July 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"