  The management of Sterling Bank Plc has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Washington DC-based Nexford University for sponsorship of secondary school leavers in Nigeria to earn international undergraduate degrees under a maximum duration of three years.  Under the initiative, the beneficiaries will also gain handson expertise for which they will be engaged by the bank to serve in specific capacities in a work-study arrangement. As a financial institution that is committed to enriching lives and impacting society,  Sterling Bank Plc, according to the management, would continue to set the pace by creating valuable opportunities for different categories of citizens.  While launching the “Grow With Sterling Initiative” recently, the bank said that the initiative is part of the Sterling Heart Sectors-Education, which seeks to contribute to the educational development of young secondary school leavers.  According to a statement by the Chief Human Resources Officer for the bank, Temi Dalley, the programme was part of the bank’s new-to-the-world opportunities for young Nigerians to get access to quality and affordable education while gaining cognate work experience.  The statement further noted that under the agreement, the financial institution would pay 65 per cent tuition fee of the learners admitted into the programme, marking a significant investment in the education of young Nigerians.  Dalley said: “Grow with Sterling’ initiative is a co-branded social impact programme that will enable Nigerian secondary school leavers to further their education under a unique partnership arrangement with the Bank as the financier and Nexford University as the learning provider.”    He, however, listed some other benefits of the programme, saying that learners will get complimentary access to 20 per cent tuition discount, free enrolment on online learning platforms, among others.   .Offers a 65% scholarship  Sterling Bank Plc in its effort to secure a knowledge-based future that is diverse has recently launched the ‘Grow with Sterling’ initiative. The initiative seeks to contribute to the educational development of young secondary school leavers. The bank had recently signed an agreement with Washington DC,… September 12, 2020 In "News" Lagos Biobank, a digital platform developed by the Lagos State Government to meet the increasing demand for Covid-19 testing following the decentralisation of testing in the state, has handled more than 5,000 requests from individuals since inception. Supported by Sterling Bank Plc, the Lagos Biobank platform was launched by the… August 29, 2020 In "News" Unity Bank Plc has partnered with Dynamiss, a digital learning solutions provider, to provide low-interest credits to schools to boost access to digital learning resources in Nigeria. Under the partnership, a full e-learning package comprising Microsoft School Portal, Discounted Airtel Data and Free Contents and Devices powered by Dynamiss will… June 24, 2020 In "Business"