 Nigeria has secured a landmark victory in its pursuit to overturn a $10 billion judgement awarded against it in a case against Process and Industrial Developments (P&ID).
Delivering his judgement on Thursday, Ross Cranston, a judge of the Business and Property Courts of England and Wales, granted Nigeria’s application for an extension of time and relief from sanctions.
On January 31, 2017, a tribunal had ruled that Nigeria should pay P&ID $6.6 billion as damages, as well as pre- and post-judgment interest at 7 percent.
The current outstanding amount is estimated at $10 billion.
The Federal Government had approached the court to establish that the contract was awarded on illegal terms.
Nigeria’s lawyers told the court in July that P&ID officials paid bribes to get the contract, reports TheCable.
P&ID reportedly entered a gas supply and processing agreement with Nigeria in 2010.
Claiming Nigeria breached the terms of the contract, it took a legal recourse and secured an arbitral award against the country.
Nigeria has been making moves to overturn the judgement and has gotten court clearance to request documents from a P&ID stakeholder and review bank statements of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Diezani Alison-Madueke and Rilwanu Lukman, former ministers of petroleum.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on August 18, arraigned James Nolan, a Briton, and six companies over their alleged involvement in the contract.  The Federal Government yesterday slammed six separate criminal charges against a British national, Mr James Nolan, and six other companies over their alleged involvement in the $9.6billion Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) “contract scam” before the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. P&ID, an Irish engineering company, had secured a… August 19, 2020 In "News" The Presidency has said that Nigeria would have faced dire legal consequences if the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari had dared to cancel the Azura-Edo Independent Power Project when it came to power in 2015. In a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by the Special Adviser to the President… July 30, 2020 In "News" …as court grants power to curb copyright’s infringement     Y ears after its battle against copyrights infringement on musical works, a Federal High Court, Abuja division has empowered Musical Copyright Society of Nigeria (MCSN) to axe offenders of the music industry’s intellectual property.     Besides, the court empowered… June 29, 2020 In "Law"