 The Management of the University of Ilorin’s Joint Universities Preliminary Examinations Board (JUPEB) has disclosed that the school would commence academic activities for the 2020/2021 Session on September 30.
Prof. Esther Omosewo, the Director of the Programme, in the university’s bulletin, said that the session would run through June 2021.
According to her, successful candidates can apply for admission through Direct Entry into the University of Ilorin and other universities.
Omosewo advised prospective applicants to visit the University’s website; www.unilorin.edu.ng for details on admission requirements.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that JUPEB is a national examination body approved by the Federal Government of Nigeria.
The Board has the responsibility of conducting common and standard examinations for candidates, who have been exposed to a minimum of one-year approved learning in universities and are seeking Direct Entry admissions into the university courses.  The Vice-Chancellor of Edo University Iyamho, Edo State, Prof. Emmanuel Aluyor, has restated the commitment of the state-owned institution to finding solutions to new challenges in the education sector and produce leaders in various fields of learning.   This was as he said that the university, despite the Coronavirus Disease… September 22, 2020 In "Education" The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has lifted the suspension on its Era services, and opened its offices nationwide to allow candidates who sat for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) prior to 2020, carry out certain required corrections of the processes in person.   Some of these Era… August 31, 2020 In "News" The Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB) has directed all institutions to begin the conduct of the 1st and 2nd choice admission exercise from August 21, 2020, to a date yet to be announced.   This was contained in a 2020 admission guideline made available to newsmen on yesterday in Abuja,… July 20, 2020 In "News"