 Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson says he and his family had all contracted Covid-19.
The former wrestler, who is now the world’s highest-paid actor, said he, his wife and two daughters caught the virus despite being “disciplined” about health protection.
He said the positive tests were “a kick in the gut”.
Now, he added: “We’re on the other end of it and no longer contagious. Thank God, we’re healthy.”
Johnson, 48, said he. his wife Lauren, 35, and their daughters Jasmine and Tiana, aged four and two, contracted the virus about two-and-a-half weeks ago, reports the BBC.
They caught it from “very close family friends” who, in turn, had no idea how they had been infected.
“I can tell you that this has been one of the most challenging and difficult things we have ever had to endure as a family,” Johnson said in a video posted on his Instagram account.
“Testing positive for Covid-19 is much different than overcoming nasty injuries, or being evicted or even being broke, which I have been more than a few times,” he added.
“My number one priority is to always protect my family.”
“We are counting our blessings right now because we’re well aware that it isn’t always the case that you get on the other end of Covid-19 stronger and healthier,” said Johnson.
“It baffles me that some people out there, including some politicians, will take this idea of wearing masks and make it part of a political agenda.
“It has nothing to do with politics. Wear your mask. It is a fact. And it is the right thing to do.”
Dwayne Johnson followed his father Rocky to become a professional wrestler and a World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) star.
He became a huge success in the sport before turning to acting, starring in blockbuster movies such as The Scorpion King, Fast & Furious 6 and the Jumanji franchise.
The former wrestler reportedly earned $87.5m (£67m) in the year to June, including $23.5m for the Netflix thriller Red Notice.  The raging COVID-19 pandemic has proved itself to be a social leveller. Since it touched the Nigerian soil in February, the pandemic has shown that it is no respecter of status, position, affluence and political power. WALE ELEGBEDE writes on state governors and their spouses already infected No doubt, the… July 8, 2020 In "Politics" ...40m women at risk of cervical cancer   As Nigeria continues to grapple with increasing cases of COVID- 19 infections in the country, the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has said the pandemic distorted all plans and strategies already on course and laid out to be implemented in the… June 27, 2020 In "News" There was uneasy calm in Delta State yesterday as Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and his wife, Edith, tested positive for COVID-19. Also, the Secretary to the Osun State Government (SSG), Prince Wole Oyebamiji, has tested positive for the virus. The Okowas tested positive barely a week after their daughter contracted the… July 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"