As the electorate in Ondo State prepare to elect a new governor on Saturday, October 10, the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has assured of the commitment of the Nigeria Police Force to replicate and advance the gains recorded by the Force and other security agencies during the Edo gubernatorial election.  The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, said in a statement that Adamu made the commitment during a visit to the Force Headquarters in Abuja, yesterday, by a delegation of civil society organisations.  He said: “Members of the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room were at the Force Headquarters to congratulate the IG on the recent reforms and achievements of the Force, especially the new Nigeria Police Act, 2020 which repeals the Police Act Cap. P19, Laws of the Federation, 2004 and secondly, the recent commendable outing in the just concluded Edo guber election.  “They called for sustainability and improvement on the police culture in managing elections as was evident in Edo State. “The meeting availed the police leadership ample opportunity to carryout post-election analysis and general overview of the just-concluded Edo State guber election, in addition to getting feedback especially from the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and Human Rights Community on necessary gains to advance and observed lapses to correct in subsequent elections.  “The IG, while appreciating the CSOs for their commendable roles in the electioneering processes and their invaluable contributions toward the passage of the Nigeria Police Act, 2020, reassured that the Force will continue to partner with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other critical stakeholders in election management towards ensuring free, fair, peaceful and credible elections, not only in the Ondo election but in subsequent elections in the country.”  In this analysis, BIYI ADEGOROYE argues that security agents must guarantee election integrity and exhibit professionalism instead of mere façade of physical presence in the forthcoming Edo and Ondo governorship elections   With the Supreme Court verdict upholding the Kogi State governorship election penultimate week, despite reported massive electoral violence,… September 13, 2020 In "Politics" …orders nationwide illegal arms mop-up   Ahead of the gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed  Adamu, yesterday, revealed that politicians are arming thugs and moving them across the country.   Consequently, the IGP has ordered Commissioners of Police in the 36 states… August 17, 2020 In "News" The Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has expressed worries over the "high likelihood of violence" during the September 19 and October 10 gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states, respectively.   According to the IGP, the alert followed a painstaking review of security threat assessment reports submitted… August 31, 2020 In "News"