 Inter Milan have signed midfielder Arturo Vidal from Barcelona for just over £900,000.
The Chilean’s move to the San Siro sees him reunite with Inter boss Antonio Conte, with whom he won three Serie A titles during their time together at Juventus.
At 33, Vidal is the latest veteran to join Inter during this transfer window, following the arrivals of 31-year-old Alexis Sanchez from Manchester United and 34-year-old Aleksandar Kolarov from Roma, reports Sky Sports.
Conte will be hoping the trio’s experience can help Inter win trophies this season after they finished as runners-up in both Serie A and the Europa League during the previous campaign.
Vidal’s exit from Barcelona comes as the Spanish side look to rebuild following their first season without a trophy in 12 years.
Arthur, Ivan Rakitic and Arda Turan have already left the Nou Camp, while youngsters Carles Perez and Marc Cucurella have been sold. Luis Suarez could also be set to join La Liga rivals Atletico Madrid.
However, captain Lionel Messi is staying at Barcelona after reversing his decision to leave, and he paid tribute to Vidal in a post on Instagram on Sunday.
He said: “I only knew you from playing against you and I always thought you were a phenomenon, but after being lucky enough to get to know you personally you surprised me even more.
“We shared many things in the last two years and you made a huge impact on the dressing room and will be dearly missed. I wish you all the best luck in your new club and I’m sure our paths will cross again.”
A  statement on Barcelona’s website read: “FC Barcelona would like to publicly express their gratitude to Arturo Vidal for his commitment and dedication and wishes him all the best for the future.”  Arturo Vidal will Sunday travel to Milan ahead of a move from Barcelona to Inter for just €1 million (£900,000/$1.2m) plus bonuses. The midfielder will complete a medical in Milan on Monday and could be confirmed as a player for Antonio Conte’s side later that day, as he swaps… September 20, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi has bid an emotional farewell to Arturo Vidal, who has left Barcelona for Inter Milan. Vidal is set to be announced as a Nerazzurri player on Monday, after the Serie A club posted updates on his arrival last weekend. The 33-year-old, who previously played in Italy for… September 21, 2020 In "Sports" ...as Suarez Juve move collapses Financially troubled Barcelona have put 12 players up for sale. The potential exits include Luis Suarez, Martin Braithwaite and Samuel Umtiti. This is part of the mass clearout that the new coach, Ronald Koeman has embarked on in other to transform the club. Last season saw… September 15, 2020 In "Sports"