 Thousands of patients had a hectic time accessing care yesterday as the warning strike declared by the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) and the Assembly of Healthcare Professional Associations (AHPA) in tertiary facilities commenced across the country.  At the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), medical doctors only provided care services, so several patients were turned back unattended to.  What the absence of JOHESU members meant was that there were no record officers to book patients, laboratory staff to conduct lab analysis, and pharmacists to dispense medications. Consequently, there was not much the medical doctors could do without their counterparts that were members of JOHESU.  A mild drama played out yesterday at the LUTH. The JOHESU members joined hands to rain curses on would-be saboteurs who would work in disregard for the directive to go on strike. “Anyone who sabotages our efforts regarding this strike, may God remove them from our midst. Amen,” they chorused.  Those who down tools in LUTH were the nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, record officers, laboratory scientists and technicians, dieticians, account officers, administrative staff, store and supply officials, among others.  A few patients were sighted at the Accident and Emergency (A&E), the Guinness Eye Centre, the NSIA-LUTH Cancer Treatment Centre, among others. Reacting to the strike, the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC), Prof. Wasiu Adeyemo, said LUTH was one of the health facilities which could not be shut down in view of the services it provided and “we are not going to do that.”  Adeyemo said the management of LUTH did not have any problem with the strike because the health workers were using it to make some demands from the Federal Government.  He, however, noted that there were some categories of staff, be they doctors or non-doctors, which could not go on strike.  NARD shuns Ehanire, Ngige’s pleas   Health workers to down tools Sept 14     Patients were yesterday stranded in hospitals across the country as resident doctors embarked on strike.   The doctors under the auspices of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) had on Friday declared an indefinite… September 8, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Warning strike by health workers under the aegis of the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) yesterday grounded activities at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Abeokuta, Ogun State capital.   Rising from a congress held on the premises of the hospital, the FMC Chairman of JOHESU, Bashir Ayobamiji-Obabiyi, directed his members… September 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" *seeks intervention of statesmen, others   *wants Keyamo to lead negotiations   Without the expected response from the Federal Government in terms of meeting their demands, health workers under the auspices of the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) said they will embark on a nationwide strike by the midnight… September 10, 2020 In "News"