 Musa Pam, Jos Prof. Nora Daduut of the Department of French, University of Jos has been declared winner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary for the Plateau South Senatorial District by-election.
The university don pulled 1,936 to place first in the Primary election which held in Shendam LGC of the state.
It would be recalled that the Plateau South Senatorial seat has been vacant since the demise of late Senator Ignatius Longjan, in February.
The Chairman of the APC Primary Election Committee for Plateau South Senatorial District Rt. Hon. Habu Isa Ajiya while declaring the results of the election Thursday night said Prof Daduut won 1,936 votes, Damian Shekarau 16 votes, Prof Doknan Shenni 60 votes and Prof. Emmanuel Garba 61 votes.
Hon. Ajiya declared Prof. Nora winner of the Primary Election having secured the highest votes and meeting the necessary requirements
New Telegraph learnt that a total of 2,117 delegates across the 6 LGAs in the zone participated in the primaries.
The electoral committee chairman also urged the winner to embrace each of the aspirants in order to unite them and win the secondary election slated for October 31, 2020. stressing that in APC there is no winner or loser.
Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong had earlier expressed confidence that the APC will retain its seat at the Senate during the forthcoming Plateau South Senatorial by-election.
Member Representing Shendam, Qua’an Pan and Mikang Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Alphonsus Komsol expressed happiness with the primaries, saying APC is a united family adding that the party will support the winner of the primaries for the by-election.  The Chairman of the All Progresssives Congress (APC) Primary Election Committee for Plateau South Senatorial District, Rt. Hon. Habu Isa Ajiya has said they would conduct free and fair election that will be acceptable to not only the candidates, but all the APC delegates in Southern Zone of Plateau State.… September 3, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Following the outcome of the primaries of the two major political parties in Ondo State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Party (APC), the battle is now set as the candidates are ready for a showdown in the October 20, 2020 governorship poll, writes ADEWALE MOMOH… July 26, 2020 In "Politics" FELIX NWANERI reports on the failed bid by Senator Dino Melaye to turn the table against his political archrival, Senator Smart Adeyemi, following the dismissal of his suit challenging the outcome of the November 2019 Kogi West Senatorial District election by the Court of Appeal The legal battle over the… July 31, 2020 In "Politics"