The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has promised to support the ongoing initiative being undertaken by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources to provide alternate energy source to Nigerians through aggressive activation of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) refill stations for motorists across the country.  According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday in Abuja, Group Managing Director of the Corporation, Mallam Mele Kyari, made the pledge during a live television broadcast on TVC Business Show, ‘Business Nigeria Live.’  The statement, which was signed by the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division of the NNPC, Dr. Kennie Obateru, noyed that the Corporation had already keyed into the gas penetration agenda as championed by the Minister of Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva.  According to him, the NNPC as an energy company with focus on cleaner and cheaper sources of fuel, would continue to work with other stakeholders in the industry to provide viable alternatives to petrol, which would ultimately lead to reduction in the demand for the product and eventual reduction in price.  The statement reads in part: “The NNPC GMD reiterated the commitment of the corporation towards openness and greater transparency in its operations, noting that in the months ahead NNPC would make public its 2019 Audited Financial Statements as a sequel to the 2018 AFS released in June.  “Kyari also shed more light on the status of the nation’s refineries, noting that the plants were deliberately shut down to allow for a robust diagnosis of the issues which have overtime made it impossible for the facilities to operate up to their name plate capacity.  “The GMD said that the shutdown also became inevitable due to difficulties in feeding them with crude oil via the pipelines that have been completely compromised by vandals.  … as FG inaugurates gas transportation network code   The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has reiterated its commitment towards boosting the delivery of gas to the domestic market, by improving its working relationship with relevant partners and stakeholders in the oil and gas industry.   Group Managing Director of… August 12, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) published its audited account for the first time in 43 years, a development seen as biggest attempt at transparency and accountability since 1977, and equally greeted with positive reactions across the country. Adeola Yusuf reports     A handful of those who have been… June 23, 2020 In "Business" ADVOCACY Stakeholders at the NAPE 45th anniversary lecture advocated establishment of energy ban   The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) at the weekend ruled out the sale of its multi-billion dollar equity in oil assets across the country to investors, declaring that this is the wrong time to venture into… August 18, 2020 In "Business"