Leaders and members of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in Abia State, led by its chairman, Chief Nkem Okoro, have defected to the All Progressive Congress (APC). Okoro while speaking at the APC state secretariat in Umuahia yesterday said they came to complete what would be described as a tsunami of political realignment with the APC which he said ended their political journey in APGA. He said: “Our decision to join the APC became more cogent and expedient, after the leader of the party in Abia state and a respected Abia son, Dr. Alex Otti joined the party with thousands of APGA supporters recently. “Today, we have trooped out here with the progressive zeal, passion and commitment to wholeheartedly join the APC with the desire to selflessly support the vision of the party aimed at ensuring that the Abia of our collective dream is achieved. “As leaders of APGA at all levels, we showed hard work and commitment devoid of compromise in leading our party men and women, therefore today, we want to assure you that, we shall deploy same virtues of commitment and sincerity as APC members to passionately work for the growth and expansion of the Abia APC at all levels.”  Following the formal defection of the leader of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr Alex Otti, to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State a fortnight ago, the entire party on Tuesday collapsed into the APC. Led by the state chairman, Hon Nkem Okoro, the state’s Working Committee… September 1, 2020 In "Politics" Igbeaku Orji x-rays the underlying factors that led to the declaration of the 2019 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Abia State, Dr. Alex Otti, for the All Progressives Congress (APC)   At the 2019 governorship election in Abia state, Dr Alex Otti and… August 26, 2020 In "Politics" IGBEAKU ORJI reports on the gale of defections to the Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by chieftains of major political parties in the state       T he recent surge in the number of politicians seeking space and relevance in the All Progressive Congress (APC)… July 1, 2020 In "Politics"