L  eicester City manager Brendan Rodgers has revealed Wilfred Ndidi’s deployment to a centre-back role will be temporary. The midfielder featured in a defensive role for the Foxes in their opening Premier League game of the 2020-21 season against West Bromwich Albion, pairing Caglar Soyuncu at the heart of the Foxes defence.  The Nigeria international was deployed in the unfamiliar role due to the unavailability of Wes Morgan, Jonny Evans and Filip Benkovic. The 23-year-old starred for the Foxes in the position, helping them to keep a clean sheet and secure a 3-0 victory in the encounter.  The Northern Irish tactician has stated the centre-back role will not be permanent and the Super Eagles star could return to his midfielder position when his defenders overcome their injury and suspension issues. “Wilf is a player that I have real confidence in,” Rodgers said in a pre-match conference.  “He played the position [centreback] very well and he has the attributes to play there. We don’t want him there for a long period of time.” Ndidi has been a consistent performer for Leicester City since he joined the side in January 2017 from Belgium’s Genk.  The Nigeria international has made 121 Premier League appearances for the King Power Stadium outfit and last season he also featured prominently as they finished fifth. The midfielder will hope to deliver impressive performances when Leicester City face Burnley in their next league game on Sunda  Leicester City manager Brendan Rodgers believes Kelechi Iheanacho has the potential to replace Jamie Vardy as the Foxes’ main striker. Iheanacho, 23, has played second fiddle to Vardy since joining Leicester from Manchester City in 2017. The Nigeria international had to wait until December before making his first league… July 11, 2020 In "Sports" L eicester City coach, Brendan Rodgers, has tipped Super Eagles striker, Kelechi Iheanacho, as the right replacement for the Foxes’ hitman, Jamie Vardy.     Speaking ahead of the club’s crucial English Premier League clash against Bournemouth at the Vitality Stadium on Sunday, the former Liverpool manager said the striker… July 12, 2020 In "Sports" Kasper Schmeichel is “as good as any goalkeeper in the Premier League”, according to Mark Bosnich, who says the Leicester No 1 would be a “fantastic” signing for Manchester United. Schmeichel joined Leicester from Leeds United back in 2011, and has since gone on to appear in 378 games… August 5, 2020 In "Sports"