 Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Dorathy has said she can never be like Erica when it comes to relationships.
Dorathy made this known during a private conversation with Laycon in the garden on Friday morning.
Dorathy said she can never be caught showing public display of affection and behave like Erica with Kiddwaya in the house.
Erica and Kiddwaya have been seen kissing and having romantic moments publicly in the house.
According to her, when it comes to love, she is more similar to Vee than Erica.
Dorathy said: “I’m a different person outside the house.
“Outside the house I’m a calm person and I’m one person everybody will come to with their relationship problems
“I think myself and Vee are alike when it comes to relationships but she allows herself to be in love while I’m too guarded for that.
“I can never be Erica, I don’t know how to do Public display of affection (PDA ) especially here. For me being here is about the money.
“It’s always hard for me to love because I know when I do I love too much and end up hurting myself. I need to visit a therapist about my heart.”  The atmosphere in the Big Brother Naija, BBNaija 2020 house appears to be getting tense every day. Just on Tuesday night, Lucy and Erica engaged in a heated argument which had both housemates hurling insults at each other. The tension has continued as Vee picked on Dorathy for disrespecting housemates including… August 12, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Big Brother Naija Lockdown housemate, Erica has given reasons for breaking up with her lover, Kiddwaya. Erica and Kiddwaya, who were seen by housemates and viewers of the reality show as having the strongest relationship in the Lockdown house, announced the end of their love chapter on Friday, Erica… August 29, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" ...as Praise insists Erica tried to kiss Laycon Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Erica, has confirmed having intimacy with fellow housemate, Kiddwaya. Erica, who is the current Head of House, HOH, disclosed that she and Kiddwaya did everything “intimate” in the HoH room. The housemate disclosed this during a conversation… September 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"