 The Indian government, on Wednesday, said it would reopen schools for students in upper grades after more than five months of closure amid a daily rise of 89,706 coronavirus infections.
According to India’s Health Ministry in its daily update, this figure takes its second-highest tally globally to more than 4.3 million cases.
At least 1,115 deaths linked to the virus were reported in the past 24 hours, bringing the total number of fatalities to 73,890, the Health Ministry said in its daily update.
India is the second-most infected country globally, with 4,370,128 cases, behind only the United States, which has a total of 6,327,793 cases, according to the US-based Johns Hopkins University.
The ministry announced late Tuesday the partial reopening of schools from September 21 for students between 9th and 12th grade, reports dpa.
The final decision has been left to parents, who will have to provide written permission for their children to go to school, the ministry said.
Online learning will still be permitted. There was no word on opening schools for younger students.
The guidelines were released as part of the fourth phase of easing lockdown restrictions.
India imposed a strict lockdown on March 25 and began lifting curbs since mid-May, in spite of a surge in infections, to revive a virus-battered economy that has seen a loss of millions of jobs.
Among new relaxations, metro services in Indian cities, including New Delhi and Bengaluru, resumed operations on Monday.
India’s top tourist attraction, the Taj Mahal, is also due to reopen from September 21 with strict safety and distance measures.  ASUU: Conditions not only impossible, but difficult to meet   NUT: No parent wants his child to be used as a guinea pig     ANXIETY The Federal Government had last week reeled out six conditions for schools to meet before reopening educational institutions in the country. But, based on… June 23, 2020 In "Education" Former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Distinguished Professor Peter Okebukola, has cautioned the government at all levels on reopening of schools amid the current spike in COVID-19 pandemic infections.   According to him, the decisions by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, to cancel the 2020… July 21, 2020 In "Education" As medical experts forecast, COVID-19, now a pandemic, will downgrade to endemism and over time, a long time, assaulted by the vaccine which the world awaits with bated breath, will fade into the background as a major health issue. Mutant strains are said to be in the works and the… July 27, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"