At least, seven persons, including a family of five, have been abducted by gunmen in a suburb of Kaduna metropolis. The attack took place in Barkallahu about 1.30am yesterday. The bandits were said to have invaded the community shooting sporadically at anything in sight and scaring the residents. Our correspondent gathered that the bandits invaded the community moving from house to house and abducting those they were able to break into their homes. One of the victims, Abdulsalam Haruna, said the bandits broke into his house and abducted his wife and four children, two of whom are students of the Federal University, Malumfashi, Katsina State. He said the hoodlums also abducted two of his neighbour’s children after violently forcing their way into their house. According to him, the bandits also attacked two other houses, including that of a retired director in the Kaduna State ministry of education, but did not abduct anybody or carry anything. In a telephone interview with journalists in Kaduna yesterday, Haruna said: “The incident happened at about 1.30am (on Friday). They broke my gate and came into my compound. They broke the door to my house and ordered everybody to follow them. “They went away with my wife and four of my children, two of whom are students of the Federal University, Malumfashi, Katsina State. “They also attacked my neighbour and went away with two of his children. Two other houses, including that of a retired director in the Kaduna state ministry of education were also attacked, but they did not kidnap anybody or carry anything there. “We alerted the security personnel but by the time they arrived the bandits had escaped with the victims.” This incident is coming barely a week, after 21 people, including a family of 17, were abducted in Udawa village, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The villagers were said to be on their way to the farm when bandits attacked them at about 7am. At the time of this report, the spokesman for the Kaduna State Police Command, Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached for reaction as his mobile phone was switched off. This is even as the police command has not been responding to the series of attacks in the state in the recent past.   Gunmen suspected to be bandits abducted 21 farmers in Kaduna State at the weekend. The abduction occurred at Udawa village in the Chikun Local Government Area, not far from the Birnin-Gwari Road.   It was learnt that 17 of those abducted, including four others who sustained various degrees of injuries… September 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Benue: Police rescue businessman, arrest five suspects   Killings in Kaduna State have not abated as gunmen have murdered a lawyer based in the Kaduna metropolis, Mr. Haro Gandu. The armed men also abducted Gandu's wife and son. This was as police in Benue State yesterday said they had rescued… July 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Some students of Prince Academy in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State have been abducted. The students who were preparing for their examination were abducted on Monday morning. The gunmen were said to have first raided houses in Damba-Kasaya community in Chikun LGA before heading to the school. Bawa… August 24, 2020 In "Education"