The embattled president of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria, Ibrahim Gusau, has stated reasons why he has been quiet over the crisis racking the federation in the past weeks Speaking with New Telegraph on the telephone, Gusau said the federation position was not do- ‘or -die and with his case currently in the court, he had to wait for the outcome of the court judg- ment before talking as he called on track and field followers to bear with him at this crucial time.  “You know me before now that I don’t love to play dirty politics,” he said. “At the moment, we have a case before the law court and it will not be wise of me to be talking to the press as the law court has the final say.  “This is not a do-or-die affair for me because all I wanted is the best for track and field in Nigeria which I hold dare to my heart and will continue to protect it with everything in me. “I really want to thank you all my friends of the media and I share in your concern for me to grant an interview on this matter.  “However, I will implore us all to be a little patient until the court of Appeal judgment is delivered on the matter. I do not want to prejudice the outcome of the Court of Appeal judgment on the matter. “I will not want to overheat the polity as these ugly events are not good for Nigeria’s publicity in the international arena.  Athletic Federation of Nigeria president, Ibrahim Shehu- Gusua, has been recalled as the zonal representative of the North West Athletics zone on the board of the AFN.   This was contained in a communiqué issued Friday by North West Athletics Association at the end of its meeting held in Kaduna… August 31, 2020 In "Sports" President Muhammadu Buhari has called for an urgent reform of the justice system saying the pace at which cases are dispensed with by courts across the country is terribly slow. In tackling the problem, President Buhari suggested a 12-month time limit for the hearing of all criminal cases while civil… August 26, 2020 In "News" …proposes 12-month limit for criminal, civil cases CJN: We won’t tolerate court processes’ abuse President Muhammadu Buhari has called for an urgent reform of the justice system, saying the pace at which cases are dispensed with by courts across the country is terribly slow. In tackling the problem, President Buhari… August 27, 2020 In "News"