Oil prices fell for a second day on Friday, pressured by a surprise rise in U.S. stockpiles as the coronavirus pandemic continues to erode demand for fuels. Brent crude was down 18 cents, or 0.5 per cent at $39.88 a barrel by 0337 GMT, after falling nearly two per cent on Thursday. U.S. crude dropped 14 cents, or 0.4 per cent to $37.16 a barrel, having fallen two per cent in the previous session, reports Reuters. Both major benchmarks are down around 6.5 per cent for the week and headed for a second week of declines, as hopes dim for a steady recovery in fuel demand amid signs of second-wave coronavirus outbreaks. In the U.S., stockpiles rose last week against expectations, as refineries slowly returned to operations after production sites were shut down due to storms in the Gulf of Mexico and wider region. “While U.S. crude oil production continues to recover following Hurricane Laura, the numbers show that refineries further reduced run rates over the last week,’’ ING Economics said in a note. U.S. crude inventories rose 2.0 million barrels, compared with forecasts for a 1.3 million-barrel decrease in a Reuters’ poll. In a further bearish sign, traders were starting to book tankers again to store crude oil and diesel, amid a stalled economic recovery as the COVID-19 pandemic continues unabated. Onshore storage remains near capacity as supplies continue to outpace demand. So, the use of so-called floating storage is back in vogue as cheap financing costs and the spread between contracts for delivery now and later months makes it favourable for traders to hold oil for later sale. Increasing stockpiles are likely to be a subject at a meeting on September 17 of the market monitoring panel of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and allies including Russia, a group known as OPEC+. The grouping has been withholding supply to reduce stockpiles but analysts say the meeting is likely to focus on compliance among members, rather than seek deeper cuts.  Oil prices fell on Thursday as major producers warned of a risk to demand recovery if the coronavirus crisis is prolonged, while U.S. crude inventories dropped less than expected. Brent crude LCOc1 was down 34 cents, or 0.8%, at $45.03 a barrel by 0732 GMT. U.S. oil CLc1 was… August 20, 2020 In "Business" Oil prices were in a holding pattern on Thursday as a massive storm in the Gulf of Mexico raced towards the heart of the U.S. oil industry, forcing oil rigs and refineries to shut, with little impact expected on supply as oil stockpiles remain high. U.S. West Texas Intermediate… August 27, 2020 In "Business" Oil prices were steady on Tuesday, erasing gains earlier in the session, as rising coronavirus cases dampened the outlook for demand and countered optimism over more U.S. stimulus. Efforts to stimulate the U.S. economy's recovery from the coronavirus crisis had raised hopes for stronger oil demand, reports Reuters. Brent… July 28, 2020 In "Business"