Nigeria’s leading table tennis player Aruna Quadri will be making his debut in the Germany Table Tennis League on Sunday, September 6 as the organisers believes his arrival will spark increased interest in the Bundesliga table tennis.  Quadri’s TTC RhönSprudel Fulda-Maberzell will be away to TSV Bad Königshofen and there have been excitement in Germany over his arrival.  According to the spokesperson of TTBL, Patrick Wichmann, Quadri’s transfer has attracted the attention of table tennis fans in Germany. “We are very happy to have Quadri in the TTBL.  As a league, we have felt the national interest that the transfer has attracted, but of course also the international media response. Quadri is a worldwide table tennis brand,” Wichmann said.  “We are very happy to have him in the TTBL and are looking forward to his debut on Sunday. In TTC RhönSprudel Fulda-Maberzell he had to replace Croatia’s Tomislav Pucar, who played two seasons with the team.  Now it will be exciting to see how fast Quadri gets used to the level in the strongest league in Europe.  “The fact that t h e TTBL is c o n – sidered t h e strongest league in Europe is d u e to the numero u s t o p stars w h o appear at the t a b l e s year after year.”  In February this year, a top Germany table tennis team, TTC RhönSprudel Fulda-Maberzell, unveiled Aruna Quadri as a new addition, especially to replace Croat Tomislav Pucar who moved to Russia. A Germany-based publication ON | Sport spoke to Quadri during the official team presentation at the weekend except.   How… August 25, 2020 In "Sports" It was an emotional feeling for Aruna Quadri during the final of the Portuguese national league final as the Nigerian played his last match for the team to claim its 37th title.   Quadri who joined the team in 2016 from GD Toledos was the cynosure of all eyes as… July 7, 2020 In "Sports" It was indeed great news, last week, as the Federal Government and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 approved the return of non-contact sports in the country.   Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the big step, but we expect more than that as there should… August 11, 2020 In "Editorial"