A history and politics teacher has been crowned as the first winner of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? in 14 years.
Donald Fear, 57, now plans to spend some of his £1m prize money on a motor home to holiday across the UK.
The father of four, who lives in Telford, correctly answered the final 15th question about the death of a famous pirate in 1718, reports Sky News.
Fear, who has been married to his wife Debs for 33 years, is the sixth champion in the ITV programme’s 22-year history.
The streak runs in the family as his elder brother Davyth won £500,000 as a contestant on the same programme last year.
Fear and his wife embarked on a caravan trip along the Northumberland coast with his wife after his win.
The couple previously planned to visit Santander, Bilbao and Pamplona in Spain before heading for the Pyrenees, but were thwarted by COVID-19.
Asked how he would be spending his next holiday, Fear revealed he intended to buy a motor home and visit “wonderful Britain”.
He said: “Much as I’d love to jump on the next plane to the States or something like that, it’s just not an option.
“So for the moment it’s wonderful Britain, probably Wales first of all – so a motor home in Wales is what I’m going to spend my million pounds on.”
Jeremy Clarkson, the show’s host, said Fear was like “having the Encyclopaedia Britannica sitting opposite me” and added: “It’s Google, in a head”.
Fear, who described himself as a “bit of a democratic socialist”, said he planned to give at least 70% of his winnings to members of his family and spend the rest on a “comfortable retirement”.
He also rubbished the idea of buying an Aston Martin sports car or moving house, saying: “It’s in a lovely area and I’ve been there for 27 years.”
After winning the second fastest finger first round of Friday’s show, Fear said he was “in the zone immediately”.
However, he admitted: “Then my next thing to negotiate was getting on the chair because I was a bit worried I was going to fall off… because I’ve got quite short legs.
“I was concentrating, I was sitting as absolutely still as I can, so this thing about (me being) cool and calm is actually me trying not to make a complete idiot of myself on national television.”
The final question he answered correctly was: “In 1718, which pirate died in battle off the coast of what is now North Carolina?”
The answer was: Blackbeard.
“I’m a dates man,” he said.
“You don’t be a history teacher for 33 years without knowing a few dates, and the date 1718 and Blackbeard leapt out at me instantly.”
Fear only used one of his lifelines, 50:50, to win the jackpot, leaving his “phone a friend” and “ask the host” options unused.
The episodes were pre-recorded without a studio audience due to COVID-19, with contestants given the option of a double “phone a friend” in place of asking the audience.
Fear celebrated his win with his brother, who he claimed was the more intelligent sibling.
He said: “He is so pleased for me.
“We went to spend a night in a hotel with our wives last week and got absolutely plastered and he kept poking me saying how pleased and how overjoyed he was by it.”
Ingram Wilcox was the last winner of the top prize, going all the way in 2006.
In all, five contestants previously won the £1 million prize on the UK version of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?
The first was Judith Keppel in November 2000.
For her final question, then-host Chris Tarrant asked: “Which king was married to Eleanor of Aquitaine?”
Ms Keppel correctly answered Henry II.  Dangote Cement Plc has handed cheques to 20 new winners in the ongoing Spell and Win national consumer promo Season 2, with the new millionaires emerging from Ekiti State, Abuja F.C.T. and Kano State.   The winners, who were handed the one million-naira cheques in ceremonies held in the three… August 17, 2020 In "Business" Since his untimely demise on January 3, 2020, not only the wife and children of Godwin Osemudiamen Kakulu have missed him, but also the members of the Ambrose Alli University(AAU),Ekpoma, alumni association Lagos.   Apart from the fact that he was a member of the immediate past executive of the… August 9, 2020 In "Opinion" Dangote Cement, at the weekend, redeemed the star prizes in the ongoing spell and win, as the four winners received alerts of N1 million each and a dummy cheque at the prize presentation event held in Warri, Delta State. In a related event, a husband and his wife were among… August 10, 2020 In "News"