Mason Greenwood has apologised for breaking COVID-19 protocols while on England duty and described his behaviour as ‘irresponsible’. Within 48 hours of making his England debut against Iceland, Greenwood and Manchester City playmaker Phil Foden had to leave the camp after breaching the strict bio-bubble in Reykjavik. Allegations emerged in the Icelandic media on Monday that Greenwood, 18, and Foden, 20, had spent time with two girls during the trip, with media outlet DV publishing purported footage filmed by one of them, reports manchestereveningnews.co.uk. With an FA investigation now hanging over the pair, Greenwood released a statement through the United website. Greenwood said: “Having now had the chance to reflect on what’s happened, I can only apologise to everyone for the embarrassment I have caused. “It was irresponsible of me to break the COVID-19 protocols which are in place to protect players, staff and the public. In particular, I want to apologise to Gareth Southgate, for letting him down, when he had shown great trust in me. “Playing for England was one of the proudest moments in my life and I only have myself to blame for this huge mistake. I promise my family, the fans, Manchester United and England that this is a lesson I will learn from.”  Mason Greenwood and Phil Foden will not travel with the England squad from Iceland to Denmark after breaching UEFA's coronavirus protocols, Gareth Southgate has confirmed. The FA is investigating media reports in Iceland that Greenwood and Foden broke quarantine rules while at their team hotel in Reykjavik. Iceland's police force… September 7, 2020 In "Sports" Phil Foden and Mason Greenwood are to leave the England camp after an "unacceptable" breach of coronavirus quarantine guidelines in Iceland.   The Football Association is investigating the breaches after Saturday's 1-0 Nations League victory. Manchester City midfielder Foden, 20, and Manchester United forward Greenwood, 18, both made their senior… September 8, 2020 In "Sports" Phil Foden and Mason Greenwood are to leave the England camp after an "unacceptable" breach of coronavirus quarantine guidelines in Iceland. The Football Association is investigating the breaches after Saturday's 1-0 Nations League victory.   Manchester City midfielder Foden, 20, and Manchester United forward Greenwood, 18, both made their senior… September 8, 2020 In "Sports"