 Muhammad Kabir, Kano Gangs of GSM phone snatchers have taken over Kano with residents facing the likelihood of losing their lives or their phones to the thieves.
The recent incidence is that of one Atiku Tijjani Shuaibu Rabo Ringim, a physiotherapist with the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital who was last night stabbed to death by yet to be identified GSM snatchers.
Zainab Rabo Ringim, a relation of the deceased in a statement made available to reporters in Kano, said her nephew was killed by phone thieves.
The incident was reported to have occurred at about 8:00pm on Thursday.
Zainab Rabo Ringim’s statement reads: “My son, my nephew, Atiku Tijjani Shuaibu Rabo Ringim was killed by unknown persons in Kano yesterday night, they killed him, yes they killed him. Trying to snatch his smart phone  by force.
“My peace loving nephew is no more, Rest in peace Yaya Atiku.”
As at press time,  the police were yet to react to the incident.
Incidents of GSM phone snatching has assumed alarming proportions in the city.
Police in the state were said to have recently uncovered a gang of the GSM snatchers, who had migrated from Maiduguri in Borno State, using Keke Napep to operate.
DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa was quoted to have said that they had arrested some five different GSM phone snatching gangs operating in the Adaidata Sahu.  The Police in Kano have arrested Haruna Ya'u who allegedly killed his friend, Sani Ibrahim following a misunderstanding over N500. Haruna, a resident of Tarauni, Kano, allegedly stabbed his friend over the money which was said to have given by the deceased for an errand. The Police Spokesman, DSP Haruna… August 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Since the industrialization of filmmaking in Northern Nigeria in the 90s, Kannywood, the region’s answer to the southern Nollywood has been faced with more challenges than one. Sitting atop the heap is its constant conflict with censorship laws, Islamic promulgations and Hausa culture which in itself is heavily influenced by… June 13, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Ongoing war between cult groups in Aba, Abia State, has claimed the life of yet another young man. The Friday night killing of the Mbano, Imo Stateborn young man was the second death recorded within a few days. It came barely six days after a teenager was reportedly killed on… September 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"