 Bruno Fernandes has been crowned as the winner of the Sir Matt Busby Player of the Year award for 2019/20, following a brilliant start to his Manchester United career.
Thousands of fans voted in our Official App to determine the victor, and they decided in favour of the Portuguese playmaker, who just edged out Anthony Martial, with Marcus Rashford finishing in third place.
Bruno succeeds Luke Shaw as the trophy’s holder, and is the first player in club history to seize it after just half a season in the red shirt, reports manutd.com.
Our no.18 said:
“Of course you want to win some trophies for the team, for the club and for the fans. But, obviously, I’m happy with the individual trophies.
“I know you can say: ‘Oh, I don’t care’ and everything, but it’s always important for a player. You always feel good when you win these kinds of awards, and I am no different. I am really happy. I want to add this to so many trophies for the club and for the fans because I think they deserve [it].” VOTING BREAKDOWN Bruno was selected as our Player of the Year by 35.5 per cent of the fans who voted, just marginally ahead of Martial with 34 per cent, while Rashford earned 10.4 per cent of the nominations.
Mason Greenwood finished fourth in the poll, after 8.3 per cent of voters chose him. Next was Aaron Wan-Bissaka, who obtained 3.8 per cent, and Harry Maguire finished sixth with 2.4 per cent. BRILLIANT BRUNO Despite playing just 22 games in a United shirt since joining from Sporting Lisbon in January, Fernandes has made a seismic impact on Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s team, thanks to his dazzling imagination and inspirational work-ethic.
The Portugal international was named Player of the Month four times (February, March, June and August), with only Mason Greenwood able to wrest it from his firm grip (July).
Bruno was named Man of the Match on his debut against Wolverhampton Wanderers and delivered his first assist, for Harry Maguire, in just his second game – an important 2-0 away win at Chelsea.
On his third start, against Watford, Fernandes scored the first of eight penalties he would dispatch during 2019/20 and notched another assist, this time for Greenwood.
That set the tone for the rest of the season, as Fernandes’s creativity spearheaded an unbeaten Premier League run which helped Solskjaer’s men clinch a third-placed finish.
Highlights included a long-range strike away at Everton, a sublime assist for Martial in the Manchester derby, and the stunning volley that iced a brilliant counter-attack against Brighton.
He finished the season with 12 goals and eight assists, and converted every penalty he took, including the first goal in our final league game of the season – a 2-0 win at Leicester City, which confirmed that we we will compete in the Champions League this season.
RECENT WINNERS
2018/19: Luke Shaw
2017/18: David De Gea
2016/17: Ander Herrera
2015/16: David De Gea
2014/15: David De Gea
2013/14: David De Gea
2012/13: Robin van Persie
2011/12: Antonio Valencia
2010/11: Javier Hernandez
2009/10: Wayne Rooney
2008/09: Nemanja Vidic  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is hopeful Paul Pogba will sign a new Manchester United contract and play an important role in the club's future success. Pogba has long been linked with a move to Real Madrid or former side Juventus, and even admitted himself last year that he was looking for… July 9, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United have proven themselves as regular trophy winners since 1990 and haven’t gone more than three years without winning silverware since then. They have not gone longer than three years without a trophy since 1990, when Sir Alex Ferguson began his amazing medal haul with the FA Cup. This… July 19, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United defender Harry Maguire says they "have to take it to the next step" after losing the Europa League semi-final 2-1 to Sevilla. The Red Devils - who have not won a trophy in three seasons - lost in the semi-finals of the EFL Cup, FA Cup and Europa… August 17, 2020 In "Sports"