…as GoFundMe for Erica hits N6.1m Big Brother Naija housemate, Laycon has said he would like Kiddwaya to be in the finals with him.
Laycon said this to Vee who had listed her top five housemates in finals to be, ‘Nengi, Neo, Laycon, Ozo and herself.
Responding, Laycon said “I see Kiddwaya in mine.”
Laycon had also told Kiddwaya that he knows the billionaire son has his back in the house.
He recounted how Kiddwaya urged him to ‘freestyle for the housemates.’
“I know you have everybody’s back, and me I have your back, I don’t know if anyone has told you this but I appreciate you.
“I remember the first night we came here, you were the first person that told me to freestyle. You were like yo! everybody listen, my boy wants to freestyle. I felt that,” he stated.
Meanwhile, a GoFundMe campaign launched for disqualified BBNaija Season 5 Housemate, Erica Nlewedim, has generated $15,863 (about N6.1million) in 22 hours.
At press time, the funds were raised by 195 people.
It was launched less than one hour after she was evicted on Sunday night for repeatedly flouting the Big Brother House rules.
Erica’s Instagram following has also grown by 80,000 followers in 23 hours. She currently boasts 662,000 as of Monday evening.
The GoFundMe was launched by Ehizode Irefo with a $100,000 goal (about N38m), which is the winning prize money set aside for the winner of the BBNaija show this year.
Ms. Irefo wrote on the GoFundMe page, ‘‘Erica Nlewedim, the star of BBNaija season 5, Lockdown edition whose journey on the show came to an emotional end – To realize some of her hopes and aspirations’’.
Her die-hard fans, who call themselves ‘Elites’, on Monday said they would rally around the actress and commercial model and ensure that the funds help fulfil her dreams.
Another fan, a popular car dealer on Instagram, Chidi Mike Cars, announced he’s gifting the actress a Mercedes Benz car and ₦2m.
Popular cross-dresser, Bobrisky, announced a donation of N1m to the disqualified housemate.  ...as Praise insists Erica tried to kiss Laycon Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Erica, has confirmed having intimacy with fellow housemate, Kiddwaya. Erica, who is the current Head of House, HOH, disclosed that she and Kiddwaya did everything “intimate” in the HoH room. The housemate disclosed this during a conversation… September 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" •Dorathy: My family has told me not to return home The BBNaija reality show has no doubt become a favourite of many people all over Africa. The show has been described as a social experiment and whoever manages to capture the heart of fans will go home with N85m worth… July 31, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" ...as Kaisha evicted from house Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Laycon, has finalized his decision towards Erica. Laycon had been finding it difficult to move on after his love interest, Erica chose Kiddwaya over him. He asked Erica to keep a distance. However, it has not been easy for him… August 17, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"