‌ Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State has met with families of policemen and members of the Civilian Joint Task Force killed by insurgents in an ambush on Friday in the state.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that many security operatives were killed with some injured when the governor’s backup convoy was attacked along Baga–Monguno road.
A statement by the Special Adviser, Media and Strategy, Malam Isa Gusau, said Zulum had on Monday met with the bereaved families of fallen policemen at the police headquarters in Maiduguri, where he promised to assist them.
“It is very unfortunate that the incident happened. May Almighty God in his infinite mercy forgive and reward them for their sacrifices and may God grant you the strength to bear the fortitude of this huge loss that is for all of us.
“It is so sad, looking at what happened. It is quite unfortunate and I am pained by that incident.
“However, those men died as heroes, as patriots, and as people that have brought honour to their families even though we never wished that it happened.
“We shall do everything possible to support the families. The education of their children is very important in addition to the support for their means of livelihood.
“I condole with the Borno state police command, the CP, the Inspector General of Police, the Nigeria Police Force and entire Nigerians over the sad moment,” Zulum was quoted as saying.
The governor was also at the state specialist hospital in Maiduguri where he consoled with those injured in the attack.  Hon. Ibrahim Hassan, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Borno State, believes that Governor Babagana Zulum needs the protection of the Federal Government for him to succeed in his bid to ensure that peace is restored to Borno State. In this interview, he speaks on the recent… August 20, 2020 In "Politics" The Unity Youth Forum ( UYF) has warned Borno State governor and his officials that any attempt to disparage the military is an act of ingratitude to the troops on the frontlines as well as President Muhammadu Buhari.  The group expressed disappointment with Zulum over his incessant outbursts targeted at the… August 7, 2020 In "News" Before reacting to that question-headline, please, take a little while to walk in the 'shoes' of Borno governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum. A few persons have been writing to condemn what they perceive as Zulum's political incorrectness. They refer to the governor’s expression of concern over ceaseless killings of the… August 14, 2020 In "Opinion"