On Tuesday September 15, a factional chairman of the Football Federation in Delta State emerged after months of crisis which led to the setting up of a normalization committee by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF).  In an election conducted in Asaba on Tuesday, Ken Nwamucha defeated Michael Anemeka to emerge as factional chairman of the DFA in a poll that has been described as illegal by critical stakeholders.  Nwamucha scored 26 votes to defeat Anemeka who did not get a single vote. Steve Cole is the Vice while Harrison Ocholor, David Igho, Neville Bekederemor, Azuka Chiama and ex-international Sam Sodje are the members. Clearly, the election opened yet another chapter in the crisis rocking the DFA after another faction led by ex-internationals, Edema Fuludu and Victor Ikpeba, was shove aside by the NFF.  Sad enough, the NFF is yet to make an official pronouncement on the election just as Fuludu has vowed to use all legal means to fight for his mandate. We expected the apex football ruling body in Nigeria to dialogue with all parties to resolve the issues rather than igniting the crisis from Abuja.  For example, the two former internationals in the board of the Delta FA should have been approached for talks on the way forward. Interestingly, the Delta FA’s vice-chairman, Ikpeba, is a member of the technical committee of the NFF.  The implication of the crisis is that some programmes of the Fuludu/Ikpeba administration might suffer as the current imbroglio lingers. According to the NFF statute, the FA at state levels can stage their elections independently and this is the premise of Edema/Ikpeba board while the factional board is banking on the sympathy being enjoyed from the Delta Sports Commission and the NFF coupled with an unwritten verbal agreement of zoning.  The NFF statute of 2010 article 18.2 on the State FAs, Clubs, leagues and group of clubs reads: “The affiliated State Football Associations, Clubs, Leagues and Groups of NFF shall take all decisions on any matters regarding their membership independently of any external body.  This obligation applies regardless of their corporate structure.” With this, one wonders where the NFF derives its powers to set up normalization committee. We are aware there is another administrative issue in the Anambra State FA.  The NFF has failed to recognize the current board led by Chief Ifeanyi Ubah and therefore has set up a caretaker committee that is expected to stage fresh election next month. In Plateau, there was no election and the tenure of the board was extended by state Congress for another four years.  Kano and Katsina also have their issues respectively. We hereby charge the NFF to focus on the running of the domestic league, national and international football to develop the game better in the country.  Sports Minister Sunday Dare can also invite the NFF for talks on how to resolve these crises so that the youth in these states will not suffer. No doubt, administrative football crisis is fast becoming a norm in Nigeria. Every organization, body or group strives to attain peace in an attempt to move the objectives of the body to another level.  The reverse is the case in Nigerian football as people come up with various rules to suit their selfish ambitions. At state and national levels, crises have rocked the game to the detriment of its development. We make bold to say the outcome of these crises always leave a dent on the growth of the game.  The game suffers especially because those who signed to pilot the affairs are busy fighting for legitimacy or other administrative issues. In this part of the world, federations fail to deliver the results expected from them due to internal crisis.  Football is not an exception as we recall Nigeria lost Nations Cup tickets during the time a Jos-based politician and businessman, Chris Giwa, was fighting NFF president, Amaju Pinnick, for legitimacy in the football house. Only last year, Nigeria also lost the tickets to feature in the men’s and women’s football events of the Tokyo Olympics.  The U-17 and U-20 male teams fumbled at the World Cup while the CHAN team failed to make it to the finals of the home-based AFCON. The inability of administrators to guarantee peace on the board resulted in setbacks for many federations including the NFF.  It is expected that administrators at all levels learn from this and avoid crisis but this has not been so. Today, the Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBF) and the Gymnastics Federation of Nigeria are in crisis.  The NBBF and the AFN have two factional presidents each. Nigerians love the game passionately, it is indeed sad that those expected to boost the development of the game are rather busy engaging in power tussle. They have failed to look for means to make the youth attain their potential and be of great asset to the country in future.  Delta State is number one in sports especially football and we frown at the current administrative crisis in the state which could hinder the growth of the game in the state. The election held last week is not a solution, but an additional problem. We urge the NFF to put an end to it rather than induce it.  Government seals off secretariat Fuludu says it’s illegal, heads to court There is no sign that crisis rocking Nigerian football will abate soon after a factional chairman emerged in the Delta State Football Association. In an election conducted in Asaba on Tuesday Ken Nwamucha defeated Michael Anemeka to emerge as… September 16, 2020 In "Sports" Administrative football crisis is fast becoming a norm in Nigeria. Every organisation, body or group strives to attain peace in an attempt to move the objectives of the body to another level. The reverse is the case in Nigerian football as people come up with various rules to suit their… September 19, 2020 In "Sports" Delta State Football Association chairman, Edema Fuludu, has revealed some deep secrets behind the current imbroglio going on in the state after another election was staged in the state on Tuesday. The Nigeria Football Federation led by Amaju Pinnick had declared election that brought in Fuludu and another ex-international, Victor… September 17, 2020 In "Sports"