A Magistrates’ Court in Makurdi on Tuesday, ordered that a businessman, Oche Mathew, be remanded in a correctional centre, for alleged armed robbery. The police charged Mathew with two counts of criminal conspiracy and armed robbery. Magistrate Ajuma Igama did not take the plea of Mathew for want of jurisdiction. Igama ordered the police to return the case file to the office of the Benue Director of Public Prosecutions. She adjourned the case until October 19 for further mention. Earlier, the Police Prosecutor, Sgt. Ato Godwin told the court that the case was reported at the ‘D’ Division police station Makurdi by the complainants, Uyima Tersoo and Ishokor Simon on September 5, 2020. Godwin alleged that Mathew and one other, attacked and robbed Tersoo and Simon at gun-point on the David Mark by-pass in Makurdi. He alleged that they stole two Samsung cell phones worth N440,000, one Pop II cell phone, worth  N47,000, one Itel cell phone worth N31,000 and cash  of N26,000. The prosecution said investigation into the matter was still on-going and prayed the court for an adjournment. The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 6(b) and 1(1)(2)(a)(b) of the Robbery and Firearms Special Provision Act 2004.   A Makurdi Chief Magistrates’ Court on Friday ordered that ThankGod Joseph, 18, be remanded in a correctional centre for allegedly killing his 40-year old father. The police charged Joseph, who lives in Ikwokwu-Ito, Obi Local Government Area of Benue with culpable homicide punishable under Section 222 of the Penal Code… October 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" A Magistrates' Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, yesterday remanded three persons in a correctional centre for an alleged murder.   The defendants are Aishat Mutiu (21), Oyewale Segun (22) and Ijaye Shola (22). The police prosecutor, Mr. John Idoko, alleged that the defendants conspired with others,… November 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" As the strike embarked upon by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) continues, Osun State Magistrate Court yesterday held its sitting at the police headquarters in Osogbo. The court session, it was gathered, was to decongest the police cells in the command and other divisions. Presided over by Magistrate… May 21, 2021 In "News"