 Denis Shapovalov has become the first Canadian man to reach the U.S. Open quarter-finals in the Open era.
He booked the last eight ticket early Monday after rallying from a terrible first set tie-break loss to beat David Goffin 6-7(0) 6-3 6-4 6-3 in New York.
He will next face Spain’s Pablo Carreno Busta in the quarter-finals.
The 20th seed was awarded his fourth round match against Novak Djokovic by default when the world number one hit a line judge with a ball.
It was Shapovalov’s first Grand Slam quarter-final.
The match can lead the way for a Canadian charge into the last eight with compatriots Vasek Pospisil and Felix Auger-Aliassime playing their fourth round clashes later on Monday.
“It’s pretty crazy how far I’ve come,” said Shapovalov, who got “goosebumps” when told of his achievement.
“Today was an extremely tough match. I had to play every single point against him and match his stability, his calmness.”
Goffin made a strong start to the match then ran away with the first set tie-break 7-0 and Shapovalov said he used the time between sets to regroup.  World number one Novak Djokovic will play Milos Raonic in the final of the Western and Southern Open after edging out Spain's Roberto Bautista Agut in the semi-finals in New York. Serb Djokovic came from behind to beat the eighth seed 4-6 6-4 7-6 (7-0) and maintain his unbeaten… August 29, 2020 In "Sports" Fourth seed Naomi Osaka overcame a scare to beat fellow Japanese player Misaki Doi in three sets and avoid a major shock in the US Open first round. Osaka, who won the first of her two Grand Slams at Flushing Meadows in 2018, wobbled in the second set before… September 1, 2020 In "Sports" Serena Williams continued her hunt for a record seventh U.S. Open title with a straight-sets win Friday as Andy Murray crashed out in the second round at Flushing Meadows. Williams, the tournament’s third seed, dispatched unseeded Russian Margarita Gasparyan 6-2, 6-4 under the roof of a near-empty Arthur Ashe… September 5, 2020 In "Sports"