*France goalkeeper, Mandanda, also positive Former Chelsea striker Diego Costa is self-isolating after testing positive for coronavirus, Atletico Madrid have announced.
The Spanish side conducted pre-season tests on players not on international duty, but Costa and team-mate Santiago Arias were also excluded having already tested positive during their holidays, reports Sky Sports.
Atletico said the duo were currently isolating and showing no symptoms. As a result, they will not be part of the group which return to training on Friday.
The new La Liga season is scheduled to begin on September 11, but Atletico – along with Real Madrid, Barcelona and Sevilla – have been given additional time to prepare for the new season due to their European commitments at the end of the previous campaign.
Diego Simeone’s side’ first league game, at home to Granada, is currently scheduled for September 27.
Elsewhere, France goalkeeper Steve Mandanda will miss Les Bleus’ Nations League matches against Sweden and Croatia after testing positive for Covid-19.
“As per the UEFA rules, the entire French delegation underwent tests on Wednesday at Clairefontaine in view of the trip to Sweden for the Nations League match this Saturday,” the French Football Federation said in a statement.
“The test of Steve Mandanda was positive for coronavirus, the goalkeeper underwent a second test in the same day. This was also positive. Steve Mandanda cannot therefore take part in the match against Sweden and will leave the group on Friday.”
Three further Paris St Germain players have tested positive, taking the total number within the French champions’ squad to six.  Atletico Madrid say two individuals have tested positive for coronavirus before Thursday's Champions League quarter-final against RB Leipzig in Lisbon. The Spanish club said the unnamed individuals are isolating at home. The positive cases were discovered after first-team players and club staff travelling to Lisbon were tested in Madrid… August 10, 2020 In "Sports" Atletico Madrid say two individuals have tested positive for coronavirus before Thursday's Champions League quarter-final against RB Leipzig in Lisbon. The Spanish club said the unnamed individuals are isolating at home. The positive cases were discovered after first-team players and club staff travelling to Lisbon were tested in Madrid… August 9, 2020 In "Sports" Lionel Messi scored his 700th career goal for club and country before Atletico Madrid came back to draw 2-2 in the Spanish league on Tuesday and deal Barcelona’s title hopes a major blow. Barcelona’s third draw in four rounds left it in second place, one point behind leader Real… June 30, 2020 In "Sports"