 A vaccine is not a requirement for holding next year’s postponed Olympics and Paralympics, the CEO of the Tokyo Games, Toshiro Muto said Friday.
Muto was speaking after a task force meeting with government officials, disease experts and Japanese Olympic officials. It’s the first of several high-level meetings dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic as Tokyo tries to figure out if it can hold the games.
“It’s not a prerequisite,” Muto said of the vaccine. “The International Olympic Committee and the WHO already discussed this matter. It’s not a condition for the delivery of the Tokyo 2020 Games. A vaccine is not a requirement. Of course, if vaccines are developed we’ll really appreciate it. And for Tokyo 2020 this will be great. But if you ask me if that’s a condition — it’s not a condition.”
The task force meetings over the next several months will deal with issue like getting athletes into Japan, COVID-19 testing, measures to keep venues safe, anti-virus measures at the Athletes’ Village, immigration issues and the status of fans.
A statement outlining the schedule of five meetings said an “interim summary is planned by approximately the end of 2020.”
“As far spectators, we don’t have any conditions yet, but we’d like to avoid no spectators,” Muto said.
Japan is facing a major challenge, with the public skeptical the Olympics can take place — or should take place. Japan has already invested billions, and the delay is likely to cost billions more.
A poll last month of almost 13,000 Japanese companies showed 53.6% want the games canceled or postponed again. The IOC has said if the Olympics can’t happen in 2021, they will be canceled.  The Tokyo Olympics will not be able to take place next summer unless a COVID-19 vaccine is found, a leading Japanese vaccine researcher has told Sky News. Professor Yoshiharu Matsuura, from the Research Foundation for Microbial Disease of Osaka University, told Sky News: "In Japan, the government is putting a… August 16, 2020 In "Sports" The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has directed all schools across Nigeria and the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) to begin preparations to resume activities within the next 30 days. The directive came just as President Muhammadu Buhari approved the commencement of the third phase of the gradual easing… September 4, 2020 In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that the Federal Government would explore all available avenues in development and distribution of vaccines against Coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Osinbajo, in a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, gave this assurance during a virtual meeting with representatives of the… August 6, 2020 In "News"