The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has justified the increase in petrol pump price and electricity tariff. The party said the increase reflects competitive and market driven components, which is supported by the citizenry. The Federal Government, yesterday, increased the ex-deport price of fuel to N151 per litre. Electricity tariff was increased to N66 per kwh effective September 1. The increase has attracted reactions and criticisms from some people. APC, in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, said: “Under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, the tortuous fuel queues as a result of biting scarcities are gone. The reviewed petroleum products pricing template has resulted in a more transparent, efficient and realistic pricing system for petroleum products and also resulted in constant availability of fuel nationwide. “The pricing template now reflects competitive and market driven components, which is supported by the citizenry. “In an effort by this administration to put an end to estimated and arbitrary billing for electricity, President Buhari recently directed a nationwide mass metering programme for electricity consumers in the country. “  The national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has justified the increase in petrol pump price and electricity tariff. The party, led by the Governor of Yobe State/Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee Chairman, Mai Mala Buni said the increase reflects competitive and market driven components which is supported… September 2, 2020 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the fresh increase in the price of fuel to N151 per litre and electricity tariff to N66 per kwh under the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its government, as callous and cruel. PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan,… September 3, 2020 In "News" The Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA), has said the pricing template of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol, would soon be reviewed to protect consumers from being overcharged.   Executive Secretary of PPPRA, Abdulkadir Saidu, who made this known over the weekend in Abuja, noted that the… June 29, 2020 In "News"