President Muhammadu Buhari has blamed the sudden spiral in food prices in the country on the activities of middlemen and traders, who serve as links between farmers and consumers in the value chain. In a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President expressed concerns over the rising prices of foodstuffs at a time the economy is mired in a slowdown occasioned by the Coronavirus disease (COVID- 19). The President assured Nigerians that the situation was transient and that his administration had already begun looking and putting in place measures to ameliorate the situation. According to him:”While Providence has been kind to us with the rains and as such an expectation that a bumper harvest would lead to crashing of food prices and ease the burdens on the population, government’s concern is that the exploitative market behaviour by actors has significantly increased among traders in the past few years and may make any such relief a short lived one. “This year has indeed tested us in ways that globalization has never been tested since the turn of the century. These challenges have disrupted lives and supply chains all over the world, and Nigeria has not been spared. “The effect has been deeply felt in the delays encountered in procurement of raw materials for local production of fertilizer (damaging standing crops before harvest) and the speculative activities by a number of rice processors who are ready to pay for paddy at any price to keep their mills running non-stop. “But of all these problems, the most worrisome are the activities of “corrupt” middlemen (with many of them discovered to be foreigners) and other food traders who serve as the link between farmers and consumers found to be systematically creating an artificial scarcity, so that they can sell at higher prices.” He continued:”In dealing with these problems, the administration has, in line with its ease of doing business mantra, avoided imposing stockholding restrictions, in order not to discourage investments in modern warehousing and cold storage. The President has just approved the release of food items from the strategic reserves, including 30,000 tons of maize to animal feeds producers to ease the high cost of poultry production.” The President, the state-ment disclosed, had raised some of these issues with the various food producer associations involved, particularly those of rice and other grains assuring that with their cooperation, the high food prices should soon be a thing of the past. He continued: “In addition, investments in the agro-allied sector by the private sector will significantly increase domestic production of farming inputs especially fertilizer, further crash prices, create employment and ease the pressure on our foreign reserves. “One of these major investments is the Dangote Fertilizer plant which is projected to come on stream by the 4th quarter of 2020. “Additionally, key government agencies and policymakers with the responsibility and visibility on market activities remain focused on removing structural impediments to the production and free movement of agricultural products.” While noting that Nigerians have already suffered grave economic losses owing to the Coronavirus pandemic, the President assured the people that his administration would do all within its powers to bring succour to the people, so that they do not continue to suffer from high food prices.  …as naira sells at N455/$ on parallel market     W ith the fall in the price of oil in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the Nigerian economy is being caught in the cross-hairs. Essentially, with oil being Nigeria’s biggest export, contributing 60 per cent of… June 22, 2020 In "Business" With the negative impacts of COVID-19 on Nigeria’s agriculture currently manifesting, the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), the umbrella body of poultry farmers in Nigeria, has raised the alarm that scarcity of poultry feeds has hit the sector. TAIWO HASSAN reports Indeed, these are not the best of times for… July 3, 2020 In "Business" The government of Ghana has pledged to work with the Federal Government to address the allegations of ill-treatment of Nigerians in its country. In a statement on Sunday, Kojo Nkrumah, Ghanaian Minister of Information, said the issues between both countries can be resolved through diplomacy. He was reacting to a… August 30, 2020 In "News"