Governor Nyesom Wike knows the value of sports to the socio-economic development of society, and he is applying it appropriately with the right key for the benefits of the people, the Rivers State Commissioner for Sports, Boma Iyaye has said.  He stated this shortly after inspecting on-going rehabilitation and regrassing work at the main and practice pitches of the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium and renovation work at Rivers United Football Club Camp in Port Harcourt.  Iyaye disclosed that the state’s owned football clubs; Rivers United and Rivers Angels will use the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, Igwuruta-Ali as venue for their home matches in the 2020/2021 football season. Recall that the Yakubu Gowon Stadium, which had previously hosted the both teams is presently being used as an isolation center for Covid-19 patients.  Accompanied by the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Sir Honour Sirawoo, The Sports Commissioner also inspected dressing room facilities and other remedial works around the sports complex to ensure they were being done according to specifications  The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has approved the total re-grassing and rehabilitation of the Mainbowl football pitch and the two training pitches of the Adokiye Amiesimaka Sports Complex.   The stadium has hosted several local, continental and international matches in the past, but the mainbowl football pitch had been… July 28, 2020 In "Sports" Rivers State Sports Commissioner, Boma Iyaye, has said the Stateowned Real Madrid Football Academy in Port Harcourt will produce a future generation of football superstars comparable to Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. Iyaye stated this when he visited the Academy ahead of official resumption, on his way to the Rivers… September 24, 2020 In "Sports" Rivers State Commissioner for Sports, Boma Iyaye, has dispelled rumours that Rivers United had agreed on a deal with the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to accept whatever decision that evolves from the ongoing intervention of the Federation on the interpretation of the Point-Per-Game (PPG) over the 2019/2020 Football Season. According… August 20, 2020 In "Sports"