D’Tigers, Nigeria basketball talisman Stanley Okoye has said Nigeria can get a podium finish at next year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan.  The Spain based basketball star in a chat with journalists said that the players believe D’Tigers are one of the world’s top teams and are determined to prove that on the global scene.  “For us, we have always talked about it. We want a medal. We have to look forward to the Olympics. We want to stay on the podium,” the 29-year-old said.  Reminiscing on D’Tigers 2019 FIBA World Cup performance in China, the US-born small forward who missed out on the 2019 Afrobasket tournament co-hosted by Tunisia and Senegal rued the team’s inability to advance from their group describing it as a missed opportunity to fight for a medal.  “At the 2019 World Cup, I felt like we had the opportunity if we had gotten out of the group stage, we would have had a decent run to get a medal.”  With D’Tigers currently ranked 23 in the world and number one in Africa, Okoye believes that a second-ever Afrobasket triumph is a distinct possibility for Nigeria. “They know we are the best in Africa, so we have to prove ourselves. If we don’t then we have fallen short,” he said.   D’Tigers stars Ike Diogu and Al-Farouq Aminu have been named in FIBA Africa’s Top 10 Players of The Decade list. FIBA Africa named the Nigerians in the first category of names released, which has five players. The second list of five names will be released soon with other Nigerian stars… July 18, 2020 In "Sports" D’Tigers stars Ike Diogu and Al-Farouq Aminu have been named in FIBA Africa’s Top 10 Players of The Decade list. FIBA Africa named the Nigerians in the first category of names released, which has five players.   The second list of five names will be released soon with other Nigerian… July 21, 2020 In "Sports" The outbreak of the COVID- 19 pandemic across the world put most activities on hold and impacted negatively on people in all spheres of life. With the National Sports Festival just few days away in March, the Nigerian government announced the first lockdown and everything was put on hold but… August 8, 2020 In "Sports"