The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has promised to abide by the peace accord brokered by Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, in this month’s Edo governorship election. PDP in a statement by the Secretary, publicity sub-committee of National Campaign Council on Edo Governorship election, Kola Ologbondiyan, said as a law-abiding and peaceful political party, PDP would continue to conduct its ac-tivities and campaign in very peaceful and orderly manner.  The party commended the Oba for his fatherly intervention to ensure a peaceful and credible governorship election in Edo State. “Indeed, our campaign and party members tremendously value the forthright admonitions, reprimands, counsel and direction by the royal father, which is a reinforcement of our party’s established and unwavering commitment towards peaceful electoral process, particularly in the Edo State governorship election, despite the provocations and unwarranted attacks.  “We are also elated by the charge on credible and issue-based campaign, guided by manifestos and geared towards the development of the state. “We are happy because such has been the fulcrum and mainstay of our campaign, for which we command the followership of the overwhelming majority of the people of Edo State,” PDP said.  The party added that its  campaign had been on the personal integrity and sterling performance of its candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, “particularly his development programmes and projects in all critical sectors across the nooks and crannies of Edo State.” It expressed hope that with the overwhelming support for its candidate, Governor Obaseki, across the state, in addition to the fact that Edo has always been home to the PDP, its candidate do not need to resort to violence in the election.  CAJETAN MMUTA writes on the increasing concerns of violence and drums of war by leading political parties and their candidates ahead of the September 19 governorship election in Edo State   With barely a month to the governorship election in Edo State, the epic battle for the soul of Dennis… August 24, 2020 In "Politics" Governor of Sokoto State and Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, his Edo State counter-art and PDP candidate in the September 19 gubernatorial election, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, yesterday called on political actors in Edo State to shun violence and embrace peace in the forthcoming gubernatorial… July 31, 2020 In "News" The leadership and members of the Edo Equity Forum (EEF) yesterday commended the Benin monarch, HRM Oba Ewuare II for his fatherly role in intervening in the feud between the state Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor and former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole… September 4, 2020 In "News"