 Not less than 10 persons have been confirmed dead after a petrol tanker exploded at Felele area of Lokoja, Kogi State Capital, on Wednesday.
According to witnesses, the incident occurred around 8:00 a.m. when the tanker lost control and rammed into oncoming vehicles.
Some of the victims include Kogi polytechnic students and a primary school pupil.
According to online news portal, PREMIUM TIMES learnt for more than one hour, no fire service within the state capital responded to the emergency.
Reacting to the explosion, the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, expressed shock and sorrow.
In the statement signed by his spokesperson, Onogwu Muhammed, the governor expressed his condolence to the families of those affected by the occurrence.
“It is very sad to learn of the tragic loss of lives, many vehicles, property and other valuables in the petrol tanker fire.”
The governor, however, urged the students of Kogi State Polytechnic to remain calm and peaceful, stating that he shared in their grieving moment over the death of some of their colleagues in the disaster.  Despite the fact that reconstruction of the Lagos-Ibadan  expressway  has reached 60 per cent completion, current  surge in tanker accidents resulting in damages  of  finished  sections of the road is generating  concerns among stakeholders. Dayo Ayeyemi reports   W hen the Federal Government, led by President Mohammadu Buhari, flagged off… June 30, 2020 In "Business" eath toll in the fuel tanker explosion in Delta State has risen to almost 100. No fewer than 95 hawkers were said to have died in the fire accompanying the explosion from a 44,000-litre tanker ferrying petroleum product on the ever-busy Benin-Sapele Expressway. The accident occurred on Wednesday. The victims… July 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...as police parade killer of late Ofodile No fewer than 13 members of one family were on Wednesday morning killed by unknown gunmen who attacked Abudu community in Kogi-Koton Karfe Local Government Area of Kogi State. The state's Commissioner of Police, Mr Ede Ayuba, who disclosed this while parading 28… July 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"