A fashion designer, Kudrat Oyewole, on Tuesday, petitioned an Ile-Tuntun Customary Court in Ibadan, seeking dissolution of her two-year-old marriage with her husband, Sikiru. Kudrat is seeking the divorce on grounds of harassments and unfulfilled marital life. The mother of one testified before Chief Henry Agbaje, the court’s President that she had endured sadness and frustration in her matrimonial home. She further said that her husband kept her and the child in a lonely developing site to live a ghostly existence and to starve. “Sikiru keeps ignoring my plea to empower me by paying for my shop as a fashion designer. “He also tells me that I had the option to pack out of his home if I was not ready to keep living a wasteful life with him. “In fact, Sikiru usually record some of his romantic moment with his concubines on his mobile phone and plays it in my presence to further frustrate me. “I reported him to his parents, but he never changed. “Just two weeks ago when I went to visit my uncle, he changed the key to the house and locked me out because I didn’t get back in time. “I am tired of staying with Sikiru, I also want to make progress in life,’’ Kudrat told the court. However, the respondent, who lived at Fatusi area in Ibadan, opposed the suit and denied some of the allegations levelled against him. He submitted that his wife was fond of frequently running to her parent’s home anytime there was a misunderstanding between both of them. “Kudrat went to enrol for a menial job without my knowledge and I told her that such behaviour doesn’t happen in our own family. “That was the reason why I prevented her from entering. “I have done everything humanly possible to rent Kudrat a shop, but she is not ready to be patient. “She must also learn to stop running to report me to her relatives,’’ Sikiru told the court. In his ruling, Agbaje appealed to the duo to exercise patience with each other. He directed them to provide more evidence to support their arguments and adjourned the case until October 6 for the continuation of hearing.   A Customary Court in Ibadan on Friday dissolved a five-year-old marriage between Mufuliat Soremekun and Abas, her husband, on grounds that he feeds his children with alcohol beverage. In her petition, Soremekun, a fashion designer had told the court that she gave up on the marriage because her husband had… June 26, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The notion that domestic violence only occurs between a man and a woman might not always be right. It can even be between women at home. At 62, she would have concluded that she came, saw and conquered. She may not have gone by the conventional African norm that thinks… August 28, 2020 In "Feminique" Streams of reactions to last week’s topic underscores the fact that there’s no life situation that is peculiar to one person. Somehow, other persons may have had similar or even more challenging experiences. Deliberately, I avoided wearying readers with legal nuances of such post-divorce reconciliatory process. The right and power… September 11, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"