 Big Brother Naija lockdown housemate, Laycon, has told Biggie that he is seriously pained and feels like crying for having failed to win the Head of House challenge for once.
Laycon said it is a shame that he will again be standing this Sunday as one of the housemates up for possible eviction.
Erica won the Head of House challenge for this week and picked Prince as her deputy which means that both housemates are saved from possible eviction.
And Laycon said he is still wondering if he will ever step into the HoH room before leaving the lockdown house.
Speaking at his diary session on Friday, Laycon tells Biggie: “This week has been going successfully except for the Head of House thing.
“I’m really pained about that. To be frank, Big Brother, I feel like crying and [I ask myself], am I really going to step into that place [HoH room] before leaving this place?
“I don’t know… I don’t know. It’s painful…because if I had won, I won’t be up for eviction and another friend of mine won’t be up for eviction. There won’t be that fear of Sunday.”  ...as Praise insists Erica tried to kiss Laycon Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Erica, has confirmed having intimacy with fellow housemate, Kiddwaya. Erica, who is the current Head of House, HOH, disclosed that she and Kiddwaya did everything “intimate” in the HoH room. The housemate disclosed this during a conversation… September 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Edwin Usoboh Just a few days into its fifth season and Big Brother Naija, it is already changing the lives of its latest housemates for good. Aired in 49 African countries, the show has become a way for young adventurous Nigerians to leapfrog their way from obscurity to success.  … August 2, 2020 In "Body & Soul" Ngozi ‘Erica’ Nlewedim has emerged the seventh head of house (HoH) at the ongoing Big Brother Nigeria (BBNaija) reality TV show. The 26-year-old actress cum commercial model from Imo state saw off competition from other housemates after securing the highest points during a keenly contested game on Monday.… September 1, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"