 Nigerian descent Marvin Olawale Akinlabi Park made his debut appearance for Real Madrid first-team in their goalless draw against Real Sociedad in their La Liga opening fixture on Sunday.
He replaced Rodrygo in the 70th minute of the encounter but could not inspire the defending champions to victory at the Reale Arena, reports Goal.
The 20-year-old was the second player who made his Real Madrid debut in La Liga on Sunday after Sergio Arribas came on for Vinicius Junior.
Marvin moved to the Spanish capital in 2016 and rose through the youth ranks at the Real Madrid after previous playing stints at Tranmere Rovers, Ciutat de Palma and Penya Arrabal.
He helped the Spanish giants lift the UEFA Youth League title last season with his contribution of a goal in seven matches, and he also scored three goals in 26 league appearances for Real Madrid Castilla.
Internationally, the youngster is eligible to play for three countries after he was born to a Nigerian father and a South Korean mother in Spain.
In January 2019, Marvin earned his maiden invitation to Spain U19 team and featured as a 62nd-minute substitute in their 3-0 defeat to Italy U19 in an international friendly.
After Sunday’s outing, he will be eager to earn more first-team action with the Santiago Bernabeu outfit in the 2020-21 season.
Real Madrid will be hoping to secure their first win of the season when they visit Real Betis for their next La Liga game on Saturday.  Super Eagles players, Samuel Chukwueze and Kelechi Nwakali will be on parade for their respective clubs this weekend as StarTimes brings all the live actions of LaLiga matches. Chukwueze will lead Villarreal in their La Liga fixture against Eibar on Saturday at 3 pm, while Nwakali’s newly-promoted Huesca will face… September 19, 2020 In "Sports" Tottenham have re-signed Wales forward Gareth Bale from Spanish champions Real Madrid on a season-long loan. Bale, 31, left Spurs for a then world record £85m in 2013 and went on to score more than 100 goals and win four Champions Leagues with Real. He originally joined Tottenham as a… September 19, 2020 In "Sports" Pep Guardiola described Manchester City’s victory over Real Madrid as a major step for his team on the European stage and evidence they have the quality to win the Champions League. City secured their place in the quarter-finals in Lisbon, where they will play Lyon next Saturday, with a commanding… August 8, 2020 In "Sports"