A German sports doctor on trial for masterminding an international doping network for athletes admitted on Tuesday to helping athletes with blood doping for years, but said he made no profit. The defendant, identified in Germany only as Mark S., is on trial, facing multiple charges in relation to helping at least 23 athletes from eight countries gain an unfair advantage over several years, reports Reuters. “I did not make a profit from doping,” he said in a statement read by his lawyers in court. The defendant also said he never put the athletes’ health at risk but did admit to blood doping. “For me it was always important that there was no damage to the athletes’ health.” The case is a result of “Operation Bloodletting” under which police raided the Nordic Ski World Championships in Austria in February 2019 and arrested athletes just hours before the start of an event. Mark S. was arrested in Germany. Prosecutors say he was behind performance-enhancing blood transfusions mostly for cross-country skiers and cyclists. They believe he was involved in the practice from at least the end of 2011. Four other suspects are on trial accused of helping him with the collection and supply of blood. If convicted, the doctor could be put behind bars for between one and 10 years. The trial is set to continue until at least mid-December. The trial that started earlier in September continues and a verdict is expected in the coming months.   The  former head of world athletics governing body, Lamine Diack of Senegal  was convicted in France on Wednesday of corruption in a Russian doping scandal and sentenced to spend at least two years in jail. He is 87 years old and would almost be 90 by the time he finishes… September 16, 2020 In "Sports" Former Nigeria Track and Field athlete, Patience Itanyi, has called for a return to school sports if the country must excel at major championships. Speaking in an explosive interview on a radio station monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, the former coach asked for more female inputs in the national team setup.… July 4, 2020 In "Sports" African 100m record holder, Olusoji Fasuba, has said in an interview on a Whatsapp group, Friends United By Sports, and monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, that he is surprised that nobody on the continent has been able to erase his 100m record of 9.85 seconds set in 2006 at the Doha… June 27, 2020 In "Sports"