  Lightning which accompanied a downpour on Saturday evening has reportedly killed 15 cows on the outskirts of Ikogosi-Ekiti in the Ekiti West Local Government Area of Ekiti State. The Asaoye of Ikogosi, Chief Ayo Ademilua, explained yesterday that the incident was a natural occurrence but it was strange in the town. Ademilua told journalists on the phone that the incident occurred at the Ikogosi Warm Springs site on Ipole-Ekiti Road. Ikogosi Warm Springs has been a notable recreational and tourist centre, where warm and cold springs converge. The Asaoye said there was thunder during a torrential rain which started about 4pm and ended at 6.02pm.  He said: “The whole town shook when the thunder struck. Later, some commuters coming into town and those returning home from their farms saw the Fulani herders who disclosed that it was lightning which killed the cattle.”  Also, the Onikogosi of Ikogosi Ekiti, Oba Abiodun Olorunnisola, said the herders had been making spirited efforts to sell the cows to residents, which he said was dangerous to the health of his people.  The monarch said he had reached out to his colleague at  Ipole-Ekiti, Oba Oladele Babatola, on the need to warn his subjects against consuming such a desecrated meat. He said: “The two of us have alerted our subjects that there was an attempt to commence the sales of the cows and we are making concerted efforts to prevent the intending buyers.” The monarch, however, called on the government to evacuate the carcasses of the cows to prevent the spread of communicable diseases in the two towns.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Sunday Abutu, said the incident had not been reported to the police, because it was a natural occurrence. He said: “We have not been told, but if the owner of the cattle later realises that someone was responsible, he will report at the police station and we will surely rise to the occasion; if such happens.”  The immediate past governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, yesterday told Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and a former Minister of Works, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, that they were not welcome in the People's Democratic Party (PDP) as Ekiti All Progressives Congress (APC) set… July 3, 2020 In "News" The ongoing webinar by members of the Top 100 Tourism Personalities Club through Naija7 Wonders platform has continued to make astounding revelations on some amazing tourist sites in Nigeria, with some of them quite enchanting and in their rustic state and not yet in the public domain. In one of… August 22, 2020 In "Travel & Tourism" Adewumi Ademiju Ado- Ekiti Police have arrested one person in connection with the death of two people during a violent crisis that occurred on Monday in Ire-Ekiti in the Oye Local Government Area of Ekiti State. More than 15 people alleged to have masterminded the crisis have also been declared… August 12, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"