 Olufemi Adediran Abeokuta The Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) in Ogun State yesterday disclosed that over 109 persons lost their lives while 665 others sustained various degrees of injuries in various road accidents in the state between January  and August this year. The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Corps, Mr Babatunde Akinbiyi, who stated this in a statement in Abeokuta, the state capital, disclosed that, most of the accidents were caused by excessive speeding, tyre burst, dangerous driving, non-use of seat belts, wrongful overtaking among others.  Akinbiyi explained that there were 527 road traffic  politicrashes during the period under review which comprised motorcycle and motor vehicle accidents.  According to him, out of the 109 deaths recorded during the period, 83 were male while 26 were female, adding that out of the 665 injured, 487 were male while 178 were female. The TRACE PRO also disclosed that, 35 persons died from motorcycle accidents while 74 persons died from motor vehicle accidents.  Akinbiyi reiterated the command’s commitment at ensuring safety on the roads through continuous sensitisation of motorists. He advised motorists to continue to obey road traffic rules and regulations and always be safety conscious while on road.    Five persons were confirmed dead in a multiple accident at Sagamu interchange diversion area along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on th8. The Spokesman of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi who conformed the accident to journalists in Abeokuta, the State capital, explained that the accident involved… August 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Four persons lost their lives on Tuesday as a commercial vehicle plunged into the Ososa River in Odogbolu Local Government Area of Ogun State. The deceased, whose identities had yet to be ascertained at press time, were coming from Ijebu-Ode and headed to Sagamu. Two other victims of the accident,… July 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Four people lost their lives yesterday when a commercial car plunged into Ososa River at Ijebu-Ode area of Ogun State. It was learnt that the car, with six passengers veered off the road and plunged into the river. Three males and one female reportedly died in the river before the… July 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"