Ahead of the September 19 gubernatorial election in Edo State, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has deployed the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of Research and Planning, Adeleye Oyabade, “to supervise the general security arrangement for the election.” However, Adamu said Oyabade will be assisted by an Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Federal Operations at the Force Headquarters Abuja, Mr. Karma Hassan, and eight commissioners of Police. The disclosure was made in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba. According to Mba, the deployment was, “in line with efforts at ensuring apt coordination of security arrangements towards a hitch-free election in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. “The DIG, with the assistance of the AIG, will superintend over the entire security architecture and ensure effective monitoring of the election and due enforcement of all electoral laws in the state. “Other senior Police Officers similarly involved (in election monitoring and evaluation) include: CP Garba Baba Umar, CP Habu Sani and CP Buba Sanusi. CP Akeera M. Yonous will coordinate the operations of the Police Mobile Force (PMF) and other special strike forces. The other four (4) CPs will supervise security arrangement in the three senatorial districts of the state. “They are: CP Omololu .S. Bishi and CP Abutu Yaro Edo North senatorial district, CP Philip Aliyu Ogbadu Edo Central Senatorial District and CP Olokade T. Olawale, Edo South Senatorial District.” On the fate of VIPs on the Election Day, the statement said: “The Inspector General of Police has barred security aides attached to VIPs and political appointees from accompanying their principals on the Election Day.”  ...bars security details from accompanying VIPs on election day Ahead of the September 19 Gubernatorial election in Edo State, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has deployed the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of Research and Planning, Adeleye Oyabade, "to supervise the general security arrangement… September 11, 2020 In "Politics" The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has expressed worries over the "high likelihood of violence" during the September 19 and October 10 gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states, respectively. According to the IGP, the alert followed a painstaking review of security threat assessment reports submitted to… August 30, 2020 In "News" Ahead of the forthcoming gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states, the Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has directed Commanders of the 79 Police Mobile Force (PMF) Squadrons "to exhibit high-level professionalism, neutrality and embrace a citizen-friendly approach in policing."   While the Edo governorship poll is… September 8, 2020 In "News"