Security agents yesterday arrested a middle-aged man, Kareem Isiaka, in Ibadan, Oyo State for allegedly trying to defraud people by claiming to be the recruitment officer for the Oyo State Security Network Agency otherwise called Amotekun.  The state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun, said Isiaka had on Sunday pasted a notice at the Adamasingba Stadium venue of the state recruitment screening centre with his name and phone numbers that those interested in joining the Amotekun Corps should contact him.  The management of the outfit got wind of the notice yesterday morning and started trailing the culprit. He was apprehendedat11.45amandhandedover to the security agents for prosecution.   Isiaka, who claimed to be selling bags of cements, blamed it on the devil. The said he regretted his action and claimed that only one person contacted him through his number.  The Chairman, Oyo State Security Network Agency (Amotekun Corps), Gen. Kunle Toogun (rtd.), said the general public should be wary of fraudsters in their quest to become members of the corps. Toogun, however, toldjournaliststhat screening of applicants into the corps would continue as the exercise had just covered only the Ibadan city axi   There was another tragic security breach on Saturday morning when men of the Oyo State Security Network Agency popularly called "Operation Amotekun and some Fulani herders engaged in a clash at Aiyete, Ibarapa North Local Government Area.   The clash was said to have started at Okebi Village, but the… January 10, 2021 In "News" Iba Gani Adams, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, doubles as the head, Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC). He said in this interview with ISIOMA MADIKE that the governors of the South West region have sent a strong signal to protect and defend their people by formally launching the Amotekun… August 15, 2020 In "Interview" There was confusion on Saturday when a member of the Oyo State Security Network also known as "Amotekun Corps" shot a police officer in Oyo town. New Telegraph learnt that the police officer, Mr. Fatai Yekini, was shot by an Amotekun Corps member identified as Ibrahim Ogundele at the Sanga… January 3, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"