The National Youth Service Corps has restated its commitment to prosecute anyone or corps member that undermines the integrity of the scheme and mobilisation process.  The NYSC Director-General, Brig. General Shuaibu Ibrahim read the riot act during the inauguration of NYSC Anti- Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU), at the National Directorate Headquarters of the scheme in Abuja.  Therefore, he said all hands to be on deck in the fight against corruption, noting that it is not a war that should be left only in the hands of the statutory bodies set up by the government to fight the malaise. Ibrahim, who pointed out that the collaboration between NYSC and ICPC, which started in 2002, gave birth to the ICPC Anti-Corruption Vanguard, which had offered corps members a veritable platform to sensitise the public on the dangers of corruption which is a cankerworm that hinders development.  The NYSC boss, who urged the newly inaugurated members of the NYSC ACTU to discharge their duties with fairness and high level of integrity in compliance with the ICPC standards, so as to justify the confidence, reposed in them by management, warned: “Those who attempt to illegally participate in the NYSC scheme, or had participated in the past through fraudulent means would be prosecuted when discovered.”  Ibrahim added: “The scheme will not entertain any request for respite or leniency by those who deliberately participate illegally in its programmes, and are seeking restitution for their past fraudulent acts.  We will allow the law to take its course on such matters by prosecuting such persons, organisations and institutions who aided and abetted them.” He, however, reiterated that the NYSC would continue to play a significant role in building a corrupt-free nation and also harness its advantage of nationwide spread and strategic positioning to sustain its collaboration with the ICPC for greater success in the anti-corruption war.  The oath of office and allegiance were administered on the 11 ACTU members by Adebimpe Abodunrin, a lawyer from the ICPC. A statement by the NYSC Director, Press and Public Relations, Mrs. Adenike Adeyemi, said that the ICPC Chairman, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, who was represented by Mr. Aiyegbayo Olayinka, during the inauguration, charged the newly inaugurated ACTU members to work hard and refrain from using their office to victimise or witch-hunt other members of staff, but rather enlist their support for the success of their assignment.  The National Youth Service Corps has expressed readiness to strengthen the existing partnership with National Cereals Research Institute (NCRI), Badeggi in Niger State to train corps members in modern farming with a view to boosting agricultural production, as well as giving fillip to the scheme’s revenue drive.   The move,… September 8, 2020 In "Education" The Management of the National Youth Service NYSC has said the resumption of camps’ normal activities would be when it has received the nod of the Federal Government and sufficiently established it is safe to do so. Reacting to an online report that the camps would soon resume Orientation programme,… June 26, 2020 In "News" Determined to bridge the skill gaps among corps members and tackle the unemployment challenges in the country, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Hall 7 Project, a private estate developer firm, are partnering on how to build skills acquisition centre that will position corps members to be selfreliant after… July 28, 2020 In "Education"