As part of efforts to fight the ravaging global Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic, the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) has launched a contactless digital hand cleaning machine that uses sensor to monitor body temperature, dispenses hand sanitiser, detergent and water.  The machine was produced and fabricated by the institution’s Faculty of Engineering. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Charles Igwe, while inspecting the equipment, said that the machine was an improvement over the manual hand cleaning machine that only dispenses detergent and water.  “This machine is different from what we have seen before, it performs four functions at a time without the user making any physical contact,” the Vice-Chancellor, who expressed delight over the equipment said after using the machine to clean his hand and measure his temperature.  Igwe, who described the digital machine as impressive, however, challenged the  Faculty of Engineering and other faculties in the university to come up with more fabrications, products and designs that would have a direct impact on the society.  “We should go beyond writing research papers to fabrication of machines, equipment and designs that will solve the numerous problems in our society,” the Vice-Chancellor stressed, even as he lauded the Dean of Faculty of Engineering and his team for demonstrating leadership in engineering and fabrication.  Meanwhile, the Dean, Prof. Emeka Obe, said that the machine was produced within four weeks by the Auto Service Centre of the faculty, adding that the production cost, estimated at over N300,000 was contributed by the staff in the service centre, led by Nwakile, an engineer.  He, therefore, appealed for sponsorship to enable the faculty to mass produce the machine, which he expressed belief would further simplify the process of monitoring prevention against COVID-19 pandemic.  A s a response to contain the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the country, the Lagos State University Faculty of Engineering COVID-19 Response Team, has fabricated and produced Automated solar-powered hand washing station machine.     The machine was unveiled at the Vice-Chancellor’s Conference Room, New Senate Building, Ojo main campus… June 23, 2020 In "Education" The management of climate change in post-COVID-19 Nigeria was at the front burner during a webinar dialogue hosted by the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), where environmental experts from different parts of the world shared thought on policy options for Nigeria in developing low-carbon resilient climate.   The webinar dialogue… August 25, 2020 In "Education" W orried by the dearth of hostel facilities confronting the university and the need to address this, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Prof. Charles Igwe, has flagged off the construction of over 12,000-capacity bed-space students’ hostel infrastructure.     This was also as the Vice-Chancellor commissioned… June 23, 2020 In "Education"