  Ngozi ‘Erica’ Nlewedim has emerged the seventh head of house (HoH) at the ongoing Big Brother Nigeria (BBNaija) reality TV show.
The 26-year-old actress cum commercial model from Imo state saw off competition from other housemates after securing the highest points during a keenly contested game on Monday.
She, thereafter, picked Nelson Enwerem Prince, fellow housemate, as deputy HoH.
This makes it the second time Erica will emerge HoH at the ‘Lockdown’ house.
It is also the second time Prince will become deputy, having served in that capacity when Lucy was the HoH.
The development comes at about the same time when Biggie, the instructive voice behind the show’s screen, announced that six housemates are up for possible eviction.
Shortly after the HoH challenge, Biggie had called each of the housemates into the diary room to nominate two of their colleagues for possible eviction with those with highest mentions consequently enlisted.
At the end of the exercise, Vee, Lucy, Laycon, Nengi, Tricky Tee and Kiddwaya were listed as housemates up for possible eviction.
On Sunday, the show’s organiser had disclosed that there would be new twists in the voting pattern which had hitherto been used to evict housemates since the commencement of the season five.
“In another season 5 twist, Big Brother has introduced a change in the voting system. From tonight’s Sunday night live eviction show henceforth, the ‘Lockdown’ housemates will no longer vote for the housemate (s) for possible eviction from the four who polled the least votes,” it wrote in a blog post.
“This change will no doubt have far-reaching consequences as housemates will no longer be able to influence who goes and who stays in Biggie’s House.”  After spending 14 days in the Big Brother House, 26-year-old Kate Jones, aka Ka3na, and 23-year-old, Lilo Aderogba have been evicted. The eviction of the two entrepreneurs was announced by Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, host of the show during the first Sunday Live eviction show. Before their exit, four housemates, Lilo, Eric,… August 2, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The fifth season of the Big Brother Naija show kicked off on Sunday, July 19, 2020, and in keeping with tradition, the new season was aptly named after prevailing social circumstances - Big Brother Naija Lockdown.  And since been stirring discussions as the battle for the N85 million grand prize heats… July 29, 2020 In "News" A storm of reactions by Nigerians has trailed the loss of Week 4 wager Big Brother Naija Lockdown season 5 by the housemates. The BBNaija Lockdown housemates had earlier sensitized viewers on gender-based violence and rape with a ‘No Means No‘ themed play as their wager challenge for week four of the BBNaija… August 14, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"