 US Representative Joseph Kennedy III has been defeated in his bid to become senator for Massachusetts.
The grandson of assassinated presidential candidate Robert Kennedy lost the Democratic primary to incumbent Senator Ed Markey on Tuesday.
Markey, 74, will stand for another six-year term in the election on November 3, reports the BBC.
It is the first time a member of the Kennedy dynasty has been defeated in a congressional vote in the state.
A new Kennedy in the political spotlight
Kennedy, 39, is currently serving his fourth term in Congress and was seen as a favourite when he announced he would run for the seat in September last year.
He was supported by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and delivered the Democratic response to President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address in 2018.
But neither his record nor his family’s legacy were not enough to ensure victory against Markey, a political veteran who co-authored the Green New Deal with Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.
“Our movement is fuelled by young people who are not afraid to raise their voices or make enemies,” Markey wrote on Twitter after Tuesday’s primary.
“Tonight’s victory is a tribute to those young people and to their vision.”  Accepts AA, ADC, LP substitutions   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has published the final list of candidates for the September 19 Edo governorship election.   The Commission also accepted the substitutions made by the Action Alliance (AA), African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Labour Party (LP).   The three… July 19, 2020 In "News" A group under the aegis of Youth Vanguard for Good Governance has thrown their weight behind Frank Ayade for the Cross Rivers North Senatorial bye election. The group made the call in a statement signed by its Coordinator, Bassey Akpan. Senator Rose Okoji Oko representing the zone died… June 30, 2020 In "News" FELIX NWANERI reports on the failed bid by Senator Dino Melaye to turn the table against his political archrival, Senator Smart Adeyemi, following the dismissal of his suit challenging the outcome of the November 2019 Kogi West Senatorial District election by the Court of Appeal The legal battle over the… July 31, 2020 In "Politics"