A clash between De Dalm and Iceland confraternities has claimed the lives of two persons at Inen Ikot Eteye village in OrukAnam Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State.  It was learnt that the incident occurred in the early hours of yesterday. Sources said members of De Balm attacked a member of Iceland in his family compound and cut him into pieces while family members and the entire village fled for safety.  A witness, Mr. Okon Idung, said the second victim identified as “OSAboy,” a member of the community vigilance group, was caught near the scene of the incident. The cultists, Idung said, gave the victim several machete cuts and dismembered his body.  He said: “OSAboy lived in the neighbouring village but met his untimely death as he rushed to take his wife to the popular Urua Awak market when the hoodlums descended on him.” Idung said the cultists killed OSAboy to hide their identities because he ran into them while they were attacking the first victim.  He said: “They caught him after the first person was killed. We heard when he was shouting for help but the cultists did not listen. They killed him on the spot just to hide their identities and escape arrest.”  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), CSP Frederick N-Nudam, said Divisional Police Officer in OrukAnam had confirmed the cult clash.  The PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police, Amiengheme Andrew, had mobilised officers from Anti-Kidnapping Unit to join forces with the Anti-Cultism Squad to restore normalcy in the area.  Fresh cults clash between the outlawed 'De Balm' and 'Iceland' confraternities on Sunday claimed  two lives in Inen Ikot Eteye village in OrukAnam Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State.   It was learnt that the incident, which occurred in the early hours of Sunday, was bloody as members of De… September 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Two persons were killed while one was abducted during a clash between Debam and Iceland confraternities in Akwa Ibom State.   The incident occurred at Inen Ikot Eteye and Ikot Inyang villages  of Inen community in the OrukAnam Local Government Area of the state.        … July 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" One person has been reported killed while a retired Police Inspector sustained severe injuries in a  rival cult clash between Debam and Iceland Confraternities which occurred on Saturday in Inen Community, Oruk Anam Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State.   Our Correspondent learnt that the victim, simply identified as… October 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"