…as 311 fans raise over N12.5m for disqualified housemate, Erica Terry Waya, father of Big Brother Naija season 5 housemate, Kiddwaya, has told those against his son winning the N85 million grand prize that the reality TV show belongs to the poor and the rich.
The billionaire businessman informed his son’s critics that it is the money contributed by both the poor and the rich through voting, adverts and others that is given to the winner at the end of the show.
Waya spoke during an Instagram live interview where he maintained that his son, Kidd enjoys the same rights to win the money just as the others.
Speaking in pidgin English, Terry Waya noted that the show is not being watched by the poor alone, insisting that the rich also spend their time watching it.
The London-based business man advised those abusing his son for participating in the show to stop, insisting that the programme is for all.
And in a related development, over 310 fans and viewers of the fifth season of one of the most popular reality television shows in Nigeria, Big Brother Naija (Lockdown Edition), have raised over N12.5m for Erica Nlewedim, a 26-year-old housemate who was disqualified on the 48th day of the show.
According to the information on her page regarding the Gofundme account, as at 9.14pm on Friday, $28, 410 (approximately N12.5m) have been donated by 311 fans.
The ex-housemate, who is one of the most popular in the current season, got more than she bargained for after a lengthy tirade against a fellow housemate, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, popularly known as Laycon. The incident, combined with some of her other actions, earned her a third and final strike.
According to Big Brother, Erica was issued a strike for verbally abusing her fellow housemates, disrespecting the Head of House lounge, and interfering with the production process.
This instantly angered some of her fans, who subsequently directed verbal abuse at the camp of Laycon, whom they held responsible for Erica’s fate. In light of these unfortunate incidents, a Gofundme fundraiser targeted at $100,000 was created for “the star of BBNaija season 5, whose journey on the show came to an emotional end – to realise some of her hopes and aspirations”.
In a statement on her Gofundme page, one Ehizode Irefo, the organiser of the fundraiser, said, “The funds will be used to raise awareness for mental health as per therapist’s fees and also help her get back on her feet considering the disqualification.”
Since Erica’s disqualification, personalities, including a wealthy socialite, Terry Waya; Ovation publisher, Dele Momodu; and an actor, Uti Nwachukwu, have been lending their support for her.
One of @DeleMomodu’s tweets reads: “When I said days ago that winning BBN is not a matter of life & death and no reason for bitterness & a loser may become greater than whoever wins the game, I was attacked by those who don’t know that experience is the best teacher. We are with you all the way and we have some plans ongoing. Stay strong, keep soaring @RealKiddwaya & @EricaNlewedim.”
Nwachukwu’s post said: “We witnessed with broken hearts as our favourite said some really hurtful words towards Laycon and subsequently Prince. Laycon, thank you for not also reacting emotionally. It could have been worse and ended up being a violent altercation. There’s a popular saying that you beat with one hand and draw close with another.
“There is no way to justify what happened but just to say please forgive. This is not a campaign, just to genuinely apologise to Laycon, Prince and their fans for all she said and did last night. To err is human and to forgive is divine. Elite, Icons, and Royal Armies please let us extend the olive branch to each other and act with love….’’
Despite her eviction from the reality show, Erica is still trending on social media platforms and currently the second most followed housemate on Instagram.  Fo rme r B i g Brother ( L o ckdown) housemate, Lucy Edet, has shed more light about the relationship between Erica Nweledim and Kiddwaya. Speaking about Erica’s chal- lenges when it comes to Kid- dwaya and Nengi, Lucy noted that at one of the Saturday party, she saw… September 11, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" A Benue State University graduate identified as Krayzietee Atu has got Kiddwaya's name carved on his head. The ardent fan, who boasted that he has been voraciously voting for the housemate as “airtime is not a problem” showed off his new haircut with 'Waya gang' carved on it. “Don't look… September 5, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" •Dorathy: My family has told me not to return home The BBNaija reality show has no doubt become a favourite of many people all over Africa. The show has been described as a social experiment and whoever manages to capture the heart of fans will go home with N85m worth… July 31, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"