 TV host, Uti Nwachukwu has apologised for Erica’s behaviour which led to her disqualification from the Big Brother Naija show on Sunday.
Erica was disqualified for breaking several house rules which included disrespect for the Head of House position which she was occupying and provoking a fellow housemate, among other things.
The 26-year-old had a disagreement with Laycon over comments about her making attempts to kiss him while she was under the influence of alcohol. An incident which she claimed ignorace of.
Erica then said some really hurtful words towards Laycon.
But Uti, 2010 Big Brother winner, while tendering the apology stated that her actions left him and her fans with broken hearts that they could literally taste.
He applauded Laycon for for not also reacting emotionally, as the situation could have been worse and ended up being a violent altercation.
He then apologised to Laycon , Prince and their Fans for all Erica said and did.
Here is his post on Instagram:
“Last night was one night we would never forget from #bbnaija2020
We witnessed with broken hearts as our favourite said some really hurtful words towards Laycon and subsequently Prince.
The shock the awe and the broken hearts were so much that you could literally taste it 
Ah babe, you no try at all.
Laycon thank you for not also reacting emotionally. It could have been worse and ended up being a violent altercation. Welldone bro
Prince, Welldone Also. RESPECT
There’s a popular saying that you beat with one hand and draw close with another.
We have beaten. Now it’s time to draw close.
THIS IS IN NO WAY JUSTIFYING what happened but just to say PLEASE FORGIVE
That being said. She has apologised .
We are also apologising and taking full responsibility
This is not a campaign..
just to genuinely apologise to Laycon , Prince and their Fans for all she said and did last night.
To err is human and to forgive is divine.
Yes some words were harsh and can’t be taken back , but I ask you to please find in in your hearts to forgive Her .
Baba God forgives us everytime we backslide and come back to pray for forgiveness. Like Jesus said. We should forgive 70X70 times. Biko
This has been eye opening for all of us and I’d want us to use this as a means of learning our own personal life’s lessons
We should all seek and learn emotional intelligence in a bid to control our emotions inebriated or not.
Whatever happens from here on, we can only promise to be empathetic considerate and compassionate
Oddly, this Reminds me of my time in the BBA3 house where I got emotional and trashed the BBA on live tv when Lucille was evicted  lol.
Yep the next week I was voted out.
I leaned my lessons and
God gave me a second chance in 2010. And the rest as we know is history
To every remorseful flawed person out there: The universe has its way of moulding and sharpening our character.
So whatever happens in our lives, mistakes Flaws and all,
ITS ALL PART OF THE PROCESS. 
Elites Icons and Royal Armies please let’s extend the olive branch to each other and act with  ...as Praise insists Erica tried to kiss Laycon Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Erica, has confirmed having intimacy with fellow housemate, Kiddwaya. Erica, who is the current Head of House, HOH, disclosed that she and Kiddwaya did everything “intimate” in the HoH room. The housemate disclosed this during a conversation… September 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" *Says: 'Laycon will kill himself or I will kill him' Big Brother Naija, BBNaija 2020 housemate, Erica on Sunday morning caused drama in the house. It all started after Erica confronted Prince for not taking her side while she hurled insults at Laycon. Erica expressed regret choosing Prince as deputy… September 6, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" … Lucy evicted from reality show BBNaija Lockdown housemate, Erica Ngozi Nlewedim has been disqualified from the show following multiple infringements of Big Brother’s rules which earned her a third strike. Big Brother announced the disqualification on Sunday after playing several clips of Erica clearly breaking the rules for the… September 6, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"