 Olufemi Adediran, Abeokuta Barely 24 hours after organised labour in Ogun State threatened to go on strike over the amended Pension Reform Bill, the state government Tuesday stepped down the  controversial bill.
Labour had on Monday insisted that the new law was “hurriedly passed by the state House of Assembly without its consent.”
The Chairman of the Joint Negotiating Council, Folorunsho Olanrewaju while addressing newsmen in Abeokuta, gave governor Dapo Abiodun a seven-day ultimatum to reverse the decision or face industrial action.
However, the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo, on Tuesday engaged the executive members of the State Chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress, (NLC), led by Comrade Emmanuel Bankole, on the controversy surrounding the law at the Assembly Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta.
Officials of the state government, comprising the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Tokunbo Talabi; the Head of Service, Alhaja Salimot Ottun; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Alhaji Salisu Shuaib and the Commissioner for Finance, Mr Dapo Okubadejo, also held a marathon meeting with the labour leaders on Tuesday
Rising from the closed-door meeting, the government stepped down the controversial bill.
The Vice Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Akeem Lasisi, who confirmed the development, said the bill had been stepped down to allow input by the labour unions.
Lasisi said “the issue of pension reform bill has been discussed and the bill has been stepped down pending the time the Unions  would make their inputs into the bill.”
Also, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin in a statement, said the meeting “concluded that since the Bill is yet to be assented to, the Government, Labour Unions and other stakeholders should study the proposed reform and forward areas of concerns to the government within one week to harmonize disparate positions and return same to the House of Assembly for consideration and amendment.”
According to him, the meeting discussed misgivings expressed by the organised labour and the issue of ultimatum issued by the labour leaders.
“The government explained the intention of the new law as a way of harmonising and aligning some aspects of the Ogun State Pension Law 2013 with the Pensions Act passed by the National Assembly in 2006; to address the challenges of accumulated unremitted pension contributions by the past administration and generally to enhance the welfare of public servants, in and out, of service.
“While Labour appreciates the good intentions of government, it expressed reservations about inadequate consultations with the supposed beneficiaries of the law, which they said led to the misgivings, in the first instance.
“Both government and labour expressed satisfaction with the understanding demonstrated at the meeting and urged both side to consult more and keep the existing relationship between the Dapo Abiodun’s Administration more cordial,” it said.  Workers in Ogun State yesterday called off their one-week warning strike over the non implementation of the new minimum wage. The state’s Chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Emmanuel Bankole, disclosed this shortly after representatives of government and the organised labour signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) at the… September 19, 2020 In "News" It is becoming recurring in Delta State for pensioners to protest on the streets over their unpaid dues. Since 2015, it has been one protest after the other by retirees, who claim the government is not paying them their money. But the state government insists it is coming from an… September 18, 2020 In "News" *Abiodun asks Assembly to extend tenure of LG Chairmen Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has written the state House of Assembly, requesting the downward review of the 2020 budget from N449.974billion to N280.9billion. The governor attributed the development to the effects of coronavirus pandemic on the socio-economic spheres of… July 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"