Vigilantes have apprehended three men who allegedly stole musical instruments from a church at Agbor Gba-Ihun, Agbor in Ika South Local Government Area of Delta State.  The suspects are Efoyoyen Bright, Adeyemi Yusuf and Richmond Chibuzor. The Unit Chairman of the vigilantes, Mr. Abraham Ojemeyi, intercepted them while they were attempting to ferry the stolen items, which included three giant pianos and five SP-3000 audio-power amplifiers.  The suspects confessed that they were to send the items to their accomplice in Lagos, Chinedu. The prime suspect, Bright, a native of Akumazi in Ika North East Local Government Area, explained during mob attack that the said  Chinedu who had assisted them financially, sent them out to steal church instruments with the map he sent to them on WhatsApp.  He said: “We have had successful operations in Delta State.  We have stolen from three churches in the past, two churches in Agbor and one in Asaba.”  The Chairman of the Agbor Gba-Ihun, Comrade Monday Kiyem, said he got a tip-off on the phone and acted swiftly to apprehend the suspects whom he said “narrowly escaped”.  There was uneasy calm at Olijie- Igbanke towns in Agbor, Ika South Local Government Area of Delta State yesterday as suspected gunmen abducted five persons but later released them unhurt. However, the release came after families of the victims reportedly paid N50 million to the kidnappers. The victims identified to… June 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits have killed 22 people, among them 17 vigilantes, a police officer and a woman in three local government areas of Niger State. The bandits also injured several others and abducted more than 30 people. The New Telegraph was informed that the bandits killed about 17 vigilantes in Dukku town… September 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...police arrest businessman’s killer Armed men yesterday killed 13 members of a family during an attack on the Abudu community in Kogi-Koton Karfe Local Government Area of Kogi State. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ede Ayuba, disclosed this while parading 28 suspected kidnappers, armed robbers, cattle rustlers and motorcycle… July 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"