President of the Nigerian Bar Association NBA, Olumide Akpata, yesterday said the national Bar will meet with the Attorney General of the Federation AGF and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, over the purported amendment of the Rules of Professional Conduct.  News had emerged over the weekend that the AGF singlehandedly amended sections 9 to 13 of the Rules guiding the Professional Conduct  of lawyers in the country. Areas allegedly affected include payment of practising fees; stamp and seal for legal practitioners; theAnnualPractising Certificate for legal practitioners; andobligationtogive notice of the commencement of legal practice to the branch of the NBA responsible for the jurisdiction in which the practice is located. If the amendment stands, then it will no longer mandatory for lawyers to be part of the NBA, or attach the NBA stamp and seal on their court processes to make such valid.  Controversies had however trailedthe allegedamendment. However, reacting to the development, Akpata, who noted that he had been receiving several calls and texts messages on the issue, said the new leadership would take up the matter with the minister. While not dismissing the report, Akpata, in a statement said that there cannot be an amendment of the RPC without a meeting of the council of the NBA   According to him: “I have seen and read Statutory Instrument No. 15 of 2020 (the ‘Instrument’) making the rounds on social media and which purports to amend certain provisions of the 2007 Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners (RPC). Since the Instrument was released, I have received numerous calls and messages from lawyers across the country, seeking clarification and guidance on the purport of the Instrument.  “The explanatory note to the Instrument suggests that it was done to bring the RPC into conformity with the provisions of the Legal Practitioners Act, the Law Officers Act, and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended)  . “For the avoidance of doubt, the Legal Practitioners Act (as amended) confers the power to issue rules of professional conduct for legal practitioners, and any amendments thereto, on the General Council of the Bar (the ‘Bar Council’)”.  'Our expectations of Akpata's presidency' Less than 48 hours after the emergence of Mr. Olumide Akpata as the 30th President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), his colleagues, both at the inner and outer Bar have set an agenda for the newly elected NBA President. AKEEM NAFIU reports   A… August 3, 2020 In "Law" Lawyers: No to divided NBA   AKEEM NAFIU writes that agitation by some sections of the Bar for the formation of a splinter NBA known as 'New Bar Initiative' following controversies trailing the emergence of Mr. Olumide Akpata as the 30th NBA President in the recently held national elections has… August 17, 2020 In "Law" Noel Joseph Arthur is an alumnus of Igbinedion University, Okada. Arthur was called to Bar in 2018. He shares his foray into the Law profession in this interview with JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background   My name is Noel Joseph Arthur, an indigene of Nsit Ubium Local Government Area of Akwa… August 31, 2020 In "Law"