 A Slovenian woman has been found guilty of deliberately sawing off her own hand as part of an insurance scam.
A court in the capital Ljubljana found that Julija Adlesic, 22, had taken out five insurance policies in the year before her injury. She had claimed it happened as she cut branches, reports the .
Adlesic stood to gain more than €1m (£900,000, $1.16m) in payouts.
She now faces two years in prison, while her boyfriend has been given a three-year sentence.
Adlesic and a number of relatives were arrested in 2019 after she arrived in hospital with her hand cut off above the wrist.
The court found that she and her boyfriend had intentionally left the severed hand behind rather than bringing it with them to ensure the disability was permanent. However, authorities recovered it in time to sew it back on.
Prosecutors said the woman’s boyfriend had also made internet searches about artificial hands in the days beforehand.
Prosecutors said this was proof that the injury was intentional.
Adlesic’s boyfriend’s father was also given a one-year suspended sentence.
Throughout the trial, Adlesic had denied intentionally cutting off her hand.
Had the fraudulent claim been successful, the couple would have received more than half a million euros as a lump sum, with the rest paid in monthly instalments.  A woman has sued her boyfriend for wasting her time and not marrying her even after being together for eight years. Twenty-six-year-old Gertrude Ngoma told a Zambian court she had gotten tired of waiting to get married to Herbert Salaliki, 28, who promised to wed her. According to local news… December 12, 2020 In "News" There was apprehension yesterday at Oguanja area of Sapele in Delta State over the discovery of the body of a 27-year-old lady.   The discovery caused panic in the area over possible arrest by the police. In the past one week, there have been reported cases of violent crime in… November 9, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" An Illinois woman was sentenced Friday to 35 years in prison in the beating death of her 5-year-old son who prosecutors said had endured years of abuse for most of his young life. JoAnn Cunningham pleaded guilty to first-degree murder last year in the death of her son, Andrew "AJ" Freund Jr., who was found… July 18, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"