 Our Reporter A former governorship candidate in Imo State and stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Uche Nwosu, has urged the United Nations, the United States and others to focus on Saturday’s gubernatorial poll, considering the “tension” it is generating.
While commending the visa ban placed on some politicians over alleged electoral malfeasance, Nwosu charged the US on the need to beam its searchlight on the conduct of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as it related to the conduct of elections.
“The US, the United Nations and others should focus on the Edo election because it is generating serious tension.
“They should identify and name those people threatening to compromise the election, it is not enough to just say that you have banned them.
“The Inspector General of Police, the Military are equal to the task but the people should also protect their votes.
“At the end of the day what the people need is he candidate of their choice,” Nwosu said.
On the visa ban on some politicians, he noted thus: “The recent visa ban slammed on some politicians by the US is a welcomed development.
“Going by my own experience, I commend the US for the action.”
The politician, who made a case for peaceful, credible elections in the country, insisted “elections should not be a do or die affair”.  The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Mahmood Yakubu, yesterday, said that the signals emanating from Edo State over the September 19 elections were not good enough. He said that although the commission and its staff were set to conduct a credible, transparent, free, fair transparent and… August 28, 2020 In "News" The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Saturday's governorship election in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki and his All Progressives Congress (APC) counterpart, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, have pledged to ensure peaceful conduct of the election. The duo who spoke yesterday after signing a peace accord midwifed by… September 16, 2020 In "News" CAJETAN MMUTA writes on the increasing concerns of violence and drums of war by leading political parties and their candidates ahead of the September 19 governorship election in Edo State   With barely a month to the governorship election in Edo State, the epic battle for the soul of Dennis… August 24, 2020 In "Politics"