 Barcelona reportedly won’t respond to Lionel Messi’s strong criticisms, even after he made a u-turn to the club on Friday evening.
Also, the club has decided not to fine him for missing training. According to Tribuna, the club board members believe that any reaction would complicate the things and won’t punish the player as a gesture of goodwill.
Barcelona won’t comment on Lionel Messi‘s most recent interview in which he attacked the board and the president, multiple sources say, including Diario AS.
The club’s directors believe any reaction would only make things worse while Barca now want to calm the storm.
For the time being, Barcelona have published just one quote from Messi’s interview on their official social media accounts.
They cited the captain saying: “I will give it my all. My love for Barca will never change.”
The Catalans now expect Messi to return to training next Monday following all the necessary medical tests.
The same source adds that the club won’t punish the captain for missing the whole week of training as a gesture of goodwill.  ...as Barca Board split over negotiations with want away star Absentee Lionel Messi may rake up penalty to the tune of €595,000. According to Diario Sport, Barcelona have the right to suspend Messi’s salary if he keeps missing the training sessions without a good cause. A fine up to seven per cent of his… September 1, 2020 In "Sports" Barcelona's all-time leading goalscorer Lionel Messi says he is staying because it is "impossible" for any team to pay his release clause and he does not want to face "the club I love" in court. The Argentine, 33, sent a fax to Barca last Tuesday saying he wanted to exercise a… September 4, 2020 In "Sports" Real Madrid's players were stunned by Lionel Messi's request to leave rivals Barcelona, sources close to the dressing room have told ESPN, with a frantic bout of WhatsApp messaging following as they, like the rest of the football world, came to terms with the week's shock news. The squad were said… August 28, 2020 In "Sports"