23 judges collect N150m each in place of duplex Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, has declared that the country will suffer grave effect if judicial officers are consistently deprived of requisite infrastructure. Muhammad stated this at the inauguration of 20 four bedroom duplexes built for Judges of Rivers State origin serving both in the state and federal judiciaries at the Emmanuel Chinwenwo Aguma Judges Quarters in Port Harcourt. Muhammad, who was represented by Justice Mary Odili of the Supreme Court, noted that Judges would be more confident to dispense justice if they have good shelter and welfare. “Lagos and Rivers states rank among the most litigious states. The implication is that manpower and materials are perennially stretched far beyond limit to attend to the large number of cases filed daily. “That explains the enormity of work before Judges. A good car, shelter and good welfare package are some of those things that can serve as magic wand to bring out the best from them. “Whenever we deliberately or inadvertently toil with the welfare of judicial officers, we are unconsciously inflicting a debilitating wound on the conscience of the nation. “We are not ignorant of Governor Wike’s huge investment to improve infrastructure of federal courts. You are today also giving to Judges a life-long accommodation on owner-occupier basis,” he said. In his comments, Governor Nyesom Wike said the judiciary would be on a pedestal of efficiency and productivity with the support given to it by his administration. “There is need to guarantee judicial independence and secure effective administration of justice. “These are the overriding consideration for the unprecedented investment we have made in our judicial system. “I cannot think of any state government with similar welfare scheme we have made. This will have profound and positive impact on judicial officers. “We have moved our judiciary from the valley of neglect to an enviable hilltop of independence, capacity and effectiveness,” he stated. Wike said the gesture of the state government would end the era when judges retire and have no shelter. “Given the constitutional restriction on legal practice, post legal service years could be miserable for judges who were unable to buy or build their own homes before leaving the service. “With our policy, the state now bears the full responsibility to providing befitting accommodation for all judicial officers of Rivers State origin beyond their service years for life. “The state government spent the sum of N6 billion to build, furnish and landscape this estate. The government also reserves the interest to buy back any flat and reallocate to other judges to preserve the exclusivity of the estate for judicial officers alone. “Twenty-three Judges opted for cash payment and have been given the approved sum of N150 million each to build and have their own houses. Cumulatively, the state government disbursed the sum of N3.6 billion to the beneficiaries. “The policy covers all former Chief Judges, Presidents of Customary Courts of Appeal, including Justice Peter Agumagu and all retired Judges who were in service when the policy was made. The current Chief Judge of the state will have her accommodation built for her before retirement in May 2021,” he stated.  The National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended the appointment of 22 judicial officers for federal and state judiciaries. The council also issued a letter of warning to Justice K. N. Ogbonnaya, of High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, over misconduct. The cCouncil made the resolutions under its Chairman,… August 14, 2020 In "News" Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, are among the dignitaries that will partake in an open-access virtual roundtable webinar organised by the Justice Research Institute (JRI). Panelists at the webinar centred on "Selection and Appointment of Judges: Lessons for Nigeria" are expected to… August 6, 2020 In "News" The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors' Forum and Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has declared that all the 36 states Governors under the platform of the Nigeria Governors' Forum (NGF) were fully in support of judicial autonomy being advocated for by Nigerians.   This, Fayemi disclosed that he had… August 18, 2020 In "News"