The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) said it has opened an investigation into the conduct of dominant Pay TV service providers in the country. Chief Executive Officer of the commission, Babatunde Irukera, who disclosed this in a signed statement yesterday, said the agency had conducted an investigation, pursued legal action in court, secured an injunction preempting price increase, and entered specific orders regarding a provider in the last 24 hours. He said FCCPC also engaged in periodic surveillance and monitoring, and more recently inquired into a purported tax increase by at least one provider. The investigation he said was being undertaken to address the commission’s concerns and publicly expressed consumer dissatisfaction with Pay TV services. “The scope of the inquiry includes, but is not limited to questions about unfair dealings, unreasonable and manifestly unjust contract terms, and abuse of market power, colourable pricing practices and other otherwise obnoxious or illegal conduct.” He said operators were invited to familiarise themselves with the FCCPA and statutory clarifications of their obligations to the FCCPC under S.104 in addition to, and or irrespective of any obligations to other regulators. “The commission will continue to pursue initiatives and efforts that promote and ensure fairness to all,” he pledged.  For the umpteenth time, Nigerians recently took to the social media to demand pay-per-view or pay-as-you-go model as the case may be, from their pay-TV operators. While several experts have attested to the fact that the demand may have been misplaced as it is unrealisable, the perennial agitation is fuelled… July 16, 2020 In "Business" Pay-Per-View: The Misunderstood Model By Ikenna Adizua At about midday on 11 July, a friend sent to me-by WhatsApp-a video clip showing Mr. Babatunde Irukera, Chief Executive of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC).   His reason for sending the clip to me was to show I was… August 1, 2020 In "Business" T he dominant pay-tv operator in Nigeria, Multichoice, has remained unwavering in its stance on pay-per-view as opposed to monthly subscriptions as being  demanded by Nigerians. The owner of DStv and Gotv is insisting that their business model is not in sync with the demands of Nigerian subscribers, even as… July 12, 2020 In "News"