 Suspected Bandits have reportedly killed one person and abducted seven women, during a fresh attack, on Daulai village of Safana area council of Katsina State.
According to reports, the suspected bandits numbering about 30, stormed the village at about 1 o clock early morning of Tuesday, September 14, shooting sporadically before abducting their victims.
The bandits also broke into shops carted away foodstuff and rustled an unspecified number of cows, The source also revealed that survivors have fled the village to nearby communities for safety.
He said that the renewed attack on the village had prompted residents to call for the urgent attention of the security agencies, to rescue the abducted women, as the villagers are not in a position to pay any ransom.
The victims believed that military bombardment of the bandits hideout, will pave the way for peace in the area.
Confirming the incident, the spokesman of the Command, SP Gambo Isah, said that one 50-year-old man named Ashiru, was killed by the hoodlums during the attack, but that, he was not in a position to ascertain the number of women abducted.
He said that he will contact the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Safana for updates.  Tragedy struck at Gidangizo village in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State on Wednesday as gunmen killed one victim and abducted two sisters of the same father. The victim, who met his untimely death, Nasiru Halilu, aged 37, was said to have engaged the bandits in an argument when… August 12, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits have killed one person and abducted two others when they invaded Kwaro village in Katsina State. However, the police have rescued two victims, Rabiu Sani and Musa Rabiu, abducted by the bandits. It was learnt that when the bandits invaded Kwaro village in the Durtsinma Local Government Area, they… August 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" More than 40 residents of Katsina have been killed in a fresh attacks by suspected bandits. A security source told online newspaper, TheCable that the attackers struck at Kadisau village in Faskari local government area of Katsina on Tuesday evening. The source said after storming Kadisau, they went from house… June 18, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"