An Abuja High Court sitting at Maitama yesterday awarded N50 million d a m a g e s against the senator representing Adamawa North, Elisha Abbo, to be paid as compensation to a female attendant at a sex-toy shop, Osimibibra Warmate, who he assaulted.  The trial judge, Justice Samira Bature, gave the order in her judgement on the fundamental rights enforcement suit instituted by Warmate against the senator.   N e w Telegraph recalled that a video clip of the assault of the woman by the senator had gone viral. In 2019, the police charged the senator before a Magistrates’ Court at Zuba, Abuja with a onecount charge of assaulting Warmate at a sex-toy shop in Abuja. But the presiding magistrate, Abdullahi Ilelah, had dismissed the case after upholding the no-case submission filed by the senator.  Warmate, through her counsel, Esosa Omo-Usoh, had approached the High Court with a fundamental rights’ enforcement suit marked FCT/CV/2393/19. Delivering judgement, Justice Bature upheld the plaintiff’s case and ordered the senator to pay N50 million to the applicant.  A Magistrate Court in Zuba on the outskirts of Abuja has dismissed the case of assault instituted by the Nigeria Police against the Senator Elisha Abbo, lawmaker representing Adamawa-North. The court dismissed the suit for lack of diligent prosecution by the police, as the Magistrate, Abdullahi Ilelah, who upheld a… August 1, 2020 In "News" The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Tuesday, dismissed a suit by Senator Dino Melaye, challenging some provisions of the controversial Control of Infectious Diseases Bill 2020. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, in her judgment, held that her court lacked the jurisdiction to hear and determine issues raised in the suit. Justice… June 30, 2020 In "News" Tunde Oyesina Abuja The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday refused the application filed by Senator Dino Melaye seeking to stop the House of Representatives from deliberating on the Infectious Diseases Bill currently before the lawmakers.   The trial judge, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, turned down the request to halt… July 1, 2020 In "News"