operations against economic sabotage in the South South, has resulted in the immobilisation of a total of 1, 052, 300 litres of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO). The operations that facilitated the discovery and subsequent destruction, were conducted between 10 and 17 September. Coordinate, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, who made the disclosure at the regular operational briefings held at the Defence Headquarters in Abuja, said troops were recording gains in ongoing operations across the various theatres. This was as the coordinator appealed for greater public support, while assuring the citizenry of safety of lives and property. “Troops of Operation Delta Safe have continued with the aggressive fight against crude oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal oil bunkering in the zone with attendant successes. “Within the period under review, the patrol team of Forward Operating Base BONNY acting on credible intelligence on 13 September 2020, immobilized an illegal refinery containing tanks filled with about 307,300 litres of illegally refined AGO at Orutoro fishing camp in Bonny Local Government Area of Rivers State. “Relatedly, on same day, Nigerian Navy Ship Delta patrol team dismantled a reactivated illegal refinery containing tanks filled with about 595,000 litres of illegally refined AGO at Banga Community in Delta State. “Also, within this period, Nigerian Navy Ship Pathfinder patrol team located and immobilized an illegal refining site at Mudukiri Creek, Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State. “The site had a metal reservoir laden with an estimated 150,000 litres of illegally refined AGO. In the same vein, Forward Operating Base Bonny patrol team discovered and dismantled an illegal refining site in Ataba, Andoni LGA of Rivers State,” Enenche said. He added that: “The team discovered 8 metal storage tanks and 4 dugout pits laden with about 1,289.45 barrels of product suspected to be stolen crude oil. “… Nigerian Navy Ship Jubilee clearance operation team acting on credible intelligence on a suspected pirates and sea robber’s camp at Otoyo, Akwa-Ibom State, raided the camp. “The patrol team came under fire. However, the overwhelming fire power of own personnel led to the forceful withdrawal of the pirates leading to their dislodgement and deactivation of the camp.” Consequently, Enenche noted that:: “The Military High Command commends all the gallant troops of the Armed Forces and personnel of other security agencies involved in various operations across the country for their commitment, determination and dedication. “They are equally encouraged to remain firm and decisive in curtailing the activities of all criminal elements in the country. “Members of the general public are hereby assured that the Armed Forces of Nigeria working with other security agencies will continue to tackle the security challenges and will ensure that normalcy is attained in all the geo-political zones of the Country.   The military has said that intensified operations against economic sabotage in the South South, has resulted in the immobilisation of a total of 1, 052, 300 litres of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO). The operations that facilitated discovery and subsequent destruction, were conducted between September 10 and 17. Coordinator,… September 18, 2020 In "News" The military, Thursday, said aggressive operations against economic sabotage in the Niger Delta, had resulted in the "deactivation" of 150,000 litres of illegally refined automatuve gas oil (AGO), as well as 943.47 barrels of crude oil. It noted that the operations that culminated in the feat, were conducted between August… August 20, 2020 In "News" The Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN), Friday, said that it recovered an estimated four hundred thousand litres of illegally refined automotive gas oil (AGO), stored at different refining sites by suspected economic saboteurs in the Niger Delta region of the country. Apart from the recoveries, it noted that the illegal… July 24, 2020 In "News"