 Ronald “Khalis” Bell, a cofounder and singer of the group Kool & the Gang, has died. He was 68.
Bell died at his home in the US Virgin Islands Wednesday morning with his wife by his side, publicist Sujata Murthy said. The cause of death has not been released.
Kool & the Gang grew from jazz roots in the 1960s to become one of the major groups of the 1970s, blending jazz, funk, R&B and pop. After a brief downturn, the group enjoyed a return to stardom in the ’80s, reports the Associated Press.
The group won a Grammy in 1978 for their work on the soundtrack for Saturday Night Fever.
Bell wrote and composed some of the group’s biggest songs including Celebration, Cherish, Jungle Boogie and Summer Madness, which was used in several films including Rocky and Baby Boy. The song was also used in a Nike shoe commercial featuring LeBron James.
Bell was working on a series of collaborations including a solo endeavor, Kool Baby Brotha Band. He also had plans of putting together a series of animated shorts called Kool TV about their childhood and career.
Bell is also survived by 10 children. Murthy said the service for Bell will be private.  A suspected member of a notorious gang, Star Boys, at the Ijesha area of Lagos has told the police that gangs in the area and Itire usually take advantage of violent clashes to rob residents. The suspect, Opeyemi Ayoola (19), was arrested alongside four others by operatives of the Special… August 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Former WWE wrestler James Harris has died, aged 70.   Harris, who performed as ‘Kamala’ and was also nicknamed the ‘Ugandan Giant’, took on wrestling Superstars including Hulk Hogan, The Undertaker and Andre the Giant during a career which spanned more than 20 years, reports The Evening Standard. The 6ft… August 1, 2020 In "Sports" Two brothers, Akinola Akeem and Mayowa Akeem and their native doctor, Odunta Moses, aka Koba, have been arrested for robbery and murdering 72-year-old woman, Mrs. Christiana Olutokunbo, at the Ijebu Mushin area of Ogun State. The old woman was killed after the gang stormed her residence, where she lived with… July 25, 2020 In "News"