 Godwin Obaseki, governor of Edo state, says Adams Oshiomhole and Bola Tinubu constitute a threat to Nigeria’s democracy. Obaseki fell out with Oshiomhole, former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in the build-up to the Edo governorship election. Oshiomhole, who was instrumental in Obaseki’s victory in 2016, became his antagonist. The former APC national chairman threw his weight behind Osagie Ize-Iyamu, his party’s candidate, who was Obaseki’s major rival in 2016. A few days to the election, Tinubu, national leader of the APC, did a TV broadcast asking the people of Edo to vote out Obaseki on the grounds that he is a dictator. But Obaseki won the poll, beating Ize-Iyamu with a clear margin of 84,336 votes. Speaking on ARISE TV on Tuesday, Obaseki said if nothing is done to clip the wings of Tinubu and Oshiomhole, they will destroy the country’s democracy. “The challenge with people like Oshiomhole and Ahmed Tinubu is that if they do not accept and change their style and attitude, they pose a big danger to our democracy because they are extra-constitutional players,” Obaseki said. “They constituted themselves into what they say they are without any constitutional responsibilities and try to overlord themselves over people who have constitutional authority and if we allow them to continue it will destroy our democracy.” Obaseki also said his statement was personal, but “it is about their role in our democracy”.   TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the renewed battle for Edo State between the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and former Secretary to the Edo State Government (SSG), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu     W ithout any iota of doubt, the September 19 governorship election in Edo State is going to be a… June 30, 2020 In "Politics" The ways of politicians are similar to the magicians, who trade in "advanced trick." Because they're adepts, they bamboozle us in the game of "the more you look, the less you see." We believe them because of our ignorance and vulnerability, which they exploit.   Take the issue of Governor… July 20, 2020 In "Opinion" The outcome of the Edo State governorship election has exposed the weakness of some political bigwigs of the All Progressives Congress (APC), particularly a former governor of the state and immediate past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, hitherto seen as a kingmaker, writes FELIX NWANERI… September 22, 2020 In "Politics"