 Barcelona players have voted for Lionel Messi to remain captain for the new season.
Messi, who asked to leave only a few weeks ago, will wear the armband next season. Something he has done ever since Andres Iniesta left the club.
In fact, the group of captains – and it’s order – is exactly the same as it was last season: Messi, Sergio Busquets, Gerard Piqué and Sergi Roberto.
All four players are La Masia graduates and it will be the third season in a row that Busquets is the vice-captain.
The vote for Messi was held amongst the players, rather than any decision made by the board or coach Ronald Koeman.
And Koeman was happy to see Leo Messi have minutes in their friendly win against Nastic.
Messi picked up 45 minutes under his belt for the first time since his transfer saga.
“He’s shown the same spirit as in the first day,” the boss added.
“He’s training well and did the same on our day off.
“He knows that he has to improve physically, like everyone, but his quality speaks for itself.”  Manchester City are weighing up offering Lionel Messi a long-term contract that would see him move to partner club New York City FC after three years in the Premier League, several sources have told ESPN. They could also offer Messi the chance to become an ambassador for the City Football Group, the holding company… August 26, 2020 In "Sports" After a brief yet turbulent close season marked by the attempted departure of Lionel Messi, little transfer activity and the renewed threat of the coronavirus in Spain, La Liga returns today amid a fixture list chaos and a decidedly gloomy outlook. The league was forced to change the days… September 12, 2020 In "Sports" •As Barca host Napoli in Champions League Barcelona drew the ire of their talismanic captain Lionel Messi when they surrendered the La Liga crown to archrivals Real Madrid last month with a game to spare and the Argentina blasted that if such dismal showing is sustained in their round of… August 8, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"