Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal has said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has failed the country. Tambuwal’s at the flag off of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign for the October 10 Ondo State governorship election, told the people that the crisis in APC was an indication that the party cannot manage a country like Nigeria.  “The APC is in disarray, not only in Ondo State where they are busy fighting but also in the national where they unlawfully, against their own constitution, dissolved their own National Working Committee. “Are they not a party of confusion? Are they capable of governing Nigeria? “As at now, they do not have a Board of Trustees for their party. Since the inception of APC till today, they have not been able to get Board of Trustees for their party. Is that not enough confusion?  That is why I am to confirm to you that APC is not the choice for Ondo State,” the governor stated. He added that the APC has failed in its promises to fight corruption, provide security and revamp the economy.  “At this time of COVID-19, they have increased the suffering of Nigerians. Instead of giving us palliatives, they are adding to the sufferings of Nigerians by increasing fuel prices, by increasing electricity tariff.  The timing is very wrong,” he said. Tambuwal told the people that the election of PDP governor, Eyitayo Jegede is a step towards restructuring Nigeria   Fiscal and monetary policy measures introduced by the country’s authorities to tackle the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, may be weakened by the Federal Government’s deficits, underutilization in the labour market and inflationary pressures, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said. The apex bank stated this in, “Monetary,… September 12, 2020 In "Business" Former National Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), South-West, Mr. Bankole Oluwajana has said that from all indications, the party will emerge winners of Ondo and Edo states governorship elections and retain both states.   On Edo State, he said Governor Godwin Obaseki, who was elected on the… August 16, 2020 In "Politics" A former chairman of the Labour Party in Edo State, Comrade Ogbaloi Kelly, doubles as the state chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC). In this Interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, he spoke on the crisis in the APC, among other issues. Excerpts… As the head of IPAC in Edo State, what… June 20, 2020 In "FaceOff"