 Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan The Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism in Oyo State, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, has accused the Federal Government of deliberately neglecting the state in its allocation of special funds and other resources to combat COVID-19.
Olatubosun said this Tuesday while receiving an award of excellence on behalf of Governor Seyi Makinde from the Abuja branch of the Music Advertisement Association of Nigeria at his office in Ibadan.
He stated: “It is very disturbing when you realise that the Federal Government has disbursed a lot of money and resources to Lagos, Ogun, Abuja and some other states, while Oyo State is being neglected. Party solidarity should not have come into an important issue like intervention to states during a pandemic like this; it is wrong.
“The testing kits given to the state were too small that it had no significance in the fight against COVID-19. Thank God for the resourcefulness of the state governor. Only community testing gulped over 20, 000 testing kits, but there is every reason to thank God for our governor and donor agencies, individuals and corporate organisations that have come to the aid of Oyo State.
“The post-COVID-19 health sector era will be blissful as the resources put into equipping all the state- owned health facilities will now make the sector responsive; the sector will never be same again,” Olatubosun said.
Earlier, the Chairman, Abuja branch of MAAN , Mr Tawab Fatola , said the body acknowledged the efforts of the state government in battling coronavirus.  T he Federal Government has taken delivery of critical medical equipment from the Economic Community of West African States - ECOWAS/WAHO (West African Health Organisation) to help Nigeria’s Covid-19 response. The equipment, worth $8 million, included two ventilators, some made in Nigeria equipments like hand sanitizers, face masks and face… July 12, 2020 In "News" The raging COVID-19 pandemic has proved itself to be a social leveller. Since it touched the Nigerian soil in February, the pandemic has shown that it is no respecter of status, position, affluence and political power. WALE ELEGBEDE writes on state governors and their spouses already infected No doubt, the… July 8, 2020 In "Politics" Onyekachi Eze, Abuja Nigerian governors are to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari over the worsening security situation in the country. The date for the meeting, which has not yet been fixed, will afford the state chief executives the opportunity to present their resolution to the president on strategies to… August 6, 2020 In "Top Stories"