 Aston Villa have signed Ross Barkley on a season-long loan from Chelsea.
The England international becomes Villa’s fifth signing of the window, following the arrivals of Ollie Watkins, Bertrand Traore, Emiliano Martinez and Matty Cash, reports Sky Sports.
After securing Barkley’s signature, Villa head coach Dean Smith told the club’s website: “Capturing a player of Ross’ quality is a real coup for our club and I am certain he will thrive here and improve our team.”
Barkley was part of the Chelsea squad that exited the Carabao Cup on penalties at Tottenham on Tuesday night, although he was not brought off the bench by Frank Lampard.
He made 31 appearances in all competitions for the Blues last season but struggled to hold down a regular starting place amid competition from Mateo Kovacic, Mason Mount and Ruben Loftus-Cheek.
Chelsea’s signing of Kai Havertz from Bayer Leverkusen during this window was likely to make it even harder for Barkley to get regular game-time at Stamford Bridge.
Villa have made a strong start to the season, winning all four of their matches so far, and Barkley’s arrival will boost a midfield that already boasts the talents of Jack Grealish, John McGinn and Conor Hourihane.  *As Newcastle damage Sheffield’s European ambitions Chelsea boosted their hopes of Champions League football next season by coming from a goal down on their return to Premier League action to beat Aston Villa 2-1 at Villa Park. After dominating the majority of the first half, Frank Lampard's side found themselves… June 21, 2020 In "Sports" ...Newcastle damage Sheffield’s European ambitions Everton and Liverpool played out a tepid goalless draw on their return to Premier League action at Goodison Park, putting a dent in the visitors' title charge.   Liverpool went into the game needing six more points to clinch their first Premier League title but… June 21, 2020 In "Sports" Chelsea preparations for the new season have been thrown into turmoil after they were hit by a coronavirus outbreak - with eight of their players missing pre-season as they self-isolate. The Blues have confirmed a number of players have tested positive for Covid-19 and are in quarantine to limit the threat… August 27, 2020 In "Sports"