 Following the outbreak of the deadly virus disease-Coronavirus, in Wuhan, China, in December 2019 and its subsequent escalation globally, it is now a clear case that it is on the rise on daily basis, hence, there is a need for aggressive solution and prevention which primarily centres on social distancing and lockdown.   Statistics obtained from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) shows the Bauchi State’s 11 cases confirmed, five discharged from their isolation centre and six still in isolation as at April 25 2020, and contact-tracing of about 400 contact persons is ongoing, but there are no deaths recorded yet.  As part of measures to curtail the wild spread of Corona Virus across Nigeria, just as in other countries affected, both the Federal Government and States have introduced various proactive measures which include lockdown, shutdown, border closure, and improved sanitation, public enlightenment campaign on regular hand washing, fumigation and social distancing.   Other measures taken to prevent the deadly virus from spreading include encouraging people to stay away from one another, especially in crowded places; engage in regular exercises indoors; refrain from shaking of hands and hugging; care for those affected; always obey health directives or instructions on Covid-19 to stay safe and not endanger others, foxy  However, New Telegraph in a chat with some Bauchi residents, learnt that Bauchi State Government could not provide palliatives to her residents, and that is why the State did not observe total lockdown, thereby, paving the way for citizens to go about their normal activities without hitches.    While interacting with Malam Haruna Yakubu Sara, a resident of Bauchi State low-cost, he told New Telegraph that the lockdown has affected him negatively regarding financial transactions.   He said, “financial institution services have been made cumbersome, thereby inflicting pains on me as a potential customer. I have to resort to P.O.S operations to survive financially and it comes with a cost implication on my finances which I didn’t plan for. The cost of food stuff has increased in the market; this is a trying time for me and my family”.   Mallam Yakubu Sara added, “With the current event, I have not been able to stockpile food stuff in the house, thereby depending on what comes in on daily basis and that is from hand to mouth.”   He expressed worry that Bauchi State Government announced interstates lockdown last week, unfortunately the state did not enforce total lockdown because of a lot of festivities that took place, such as wedding ceremonies that took place across the State where a lot of personalities came to the State without respecting the lockdown restriction. This violates the condition for prevention of Covid-19.   He explained that social distancing practice was not observed, no checks and balances of incoming guests to the state metropolis and environs were carried out, thereby endangering lives of the people within the state. He noted that citizens should be aware of the danger of the spread of Covid-19, and all rules should be strictly observed.   On palliative measures, he said, without observing the Covid-19 rules and regulations, the citizens are still asking for palliative measures, and they are going about their normal earning activities. This is uncalled for.”   However, he opined that government should look into other means of offering palliatives to the less privileged and that, “Government should enforce total lockdown to enable the state tackle spread of Covid-19, as we are having some index cases on ground already.”   On her part, Fatima Danjuma Idris, a resident of Yelwa, a suburb of Bauchi metropolis, said, “I will say, stay-at-home is not easy for an ordinary Nigerian, more especially the vulnerable ones among us who feed from hand to mouth, as such; they must go out to find food for their family members. It is not easy at this crucial time at all.”   Idris said that life was very difficult for her, especially at this time of the lockdown. “At this time, we are surviving by the will of God, and when the Government announced the lockdown, we made provision for two weeks to take care of our families and abide by the advice of the Ministry of Health by putting running tap and washing our hands with soap and keeping social distance, but what we stocked is getting exhausted, and we have no other means of income.”   She said that the lockdown has affected her negatively. “It has kept me away from my daily activities. It has stopped me from coming together with my members and relations to discuss issues that have to do with our association and family matters.”   Idris said further that government was yet to meet her expectation on tackling Covid-19 pandemic, as she reflected on the present and practicable condition of our health facilities, sanitation level, poverty, and accountable and purposeful leadership that Nigeria is experiencing: “Government has not done one percent of what is demanded of it to do in tackling the pandemic. My expectation is that as government directed us to stay at home like other countries, they need to support us with food items, palliatives and other things that we will need obey the directives because we cannot stay hungry. The virus of hunger is more deadly than Coronavirus itself.”   She however appealed to wealthy individuals, nongovernmental organisations and philanthropists to help government with resources to fight Coronavirus while suggesting that because of corruption, instead of individual groups donating money, food items and other materials to government, they should be sharing it by themselves.   Also in an interview, African Democratic Congress (ADC) alleged that Federal Government was not doing enough in handling and controlling the spread of Covid-19.   He pointed out that the pandemic has triggered a change in the nation and Nigeria has failed to make adequate provision to bring succor to its citizens as they battle with stay at home.   In a telephone interview with Bauchi Chairman on Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), Malam Buba Musa said they are really suffering in the camps as they have being abandoned by both State and Federal Government during this lockdown.   He said “Where we are engaged in laboring work, petty trade and other menial jobs to feed our family all these jobs are no longer there. As of now we have nothing doing to survive; we really need help during this period of lockdown. The Federal Government has directed that they should supply us with food items but up to now nothing has been done. Life has not been easy for them in camp”. In a deeper voice, Buba Musa explained that this period is another death trap for them staying at home.   New Telegraph observed that there is extreme poverty among Nigerians, especially in Bauchi State, which shows that out of over 8 million citizens, about 95 percent are living below one dollar, and this is one of the reasons the state did not totally lockdown.    The State Governor, Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir, has appealed to the international donor organizations, philanthropists and wealthy individuals to come to the aid of the downtrodden at this special period to help reduce suffering among citizens.   The State is yet to commence distributions of food items, face masks and other materials donated to them by corporate organisations and wealthy individuals.   