General Secretary of the Nigeria Football Federation Dr Mohammed Sanusi on Monday paid a visit to the camp of the U20 National Boys Team, Flying Eagles, who are on the final leg of preparations for the WAFU B U20 Tournament.  Sanusi, who was in Benin Republic where he was match commissioner for a CAF Confederations Cup match in Cotonou as well as put finishing touches to the Flying Eagles’ accommodation and welfare issues for the WAFU B Tournament, charged the players to do Nigeria proud.  Citing experiences playing in African tournaments, the General Secretary told the players they have to be physically and mentally ready for the challenge ahead. “I must, first of all, congratulate you for being selected among all the players that came to try out for selection to represent Nigerian in the WAFU competition,” he said.  “You must use this a springboard to show your coaches and Nigerians that it was not a mistake that you were picked to represent the country. I must warn you it will not be easy.  You have to try your best to be mentally and physically ready for the matches because it will not be eas   Nigeria’s U20 and U17 boys have been presented with tough tasks in the races for next year’s youth continental championships. At the Draws conducted Wednesday, seven-time African champions, Flying Eagles of Nigeria were housed in the same Group B as Ghana’s Black Satellites and the Junior Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire… October 21, 2020 In "Sports" The country's U-20 team, the Flying Eagles of Nigeria started their preparations on a bright note, defeating KCG Academy 5-0 in a warm-up game on Saturday afternoon.   The Nigeria U-20 Men’s National Team went 2-0 up in the first half, in what is seen a keenly contested match between… November 2, 2020 In "Sports" Head Coach Isa Ladan Bosso has picked his 20-man squad that will contest for the WAFU B Cup of Nations title at the tournament taking place in Porto Novo, Benin Republic next month. The competition, which holds December 5 - 20, will also serve as the qualifying tournament for the… November 27, 2020 In "Sports"