President Muhammmadu Buhari yesterday constituted a delegation led by the Minister of Defence, Maj-Gen. Bashir Salihi Magashi (rtd), to visit the family, and condole with government and people of Plateau State over the death of former Minister of Defence, Gen. Domkat Yah Bali. Buhari in a statement made available to journalists yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, condoled with the people and government of Plateau over the passing of their illustrious son and highly decorated retired military officer. The President, who spoke with the wife of the deceased, Esther yesterday, also commiserated with other family members, friends and professional associates of the former member of the Supreme Military Council and Armed Forces Ruling Council, after rising through the ranks, with a distinguished military career, reaching the peak as Chief of Defence Staff. The statement reads in parts. “President Muhammadu Buhari condoles with the people and government of Plateau State over the passing of an illustrious son and highly decorated retired military officer, Gen. Domkat Bali, who served the country as Minister of Defence.”  Top (pix: buhari, Osinbajo with service Chiefs) President Muhammadu Buhari is currently presiding over Security Council meeting at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. In attendance are the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, the Secretary to the Government of the… August 4, 2020 In "News" Musa Pam, Jos Former Minister of Defence, General Domkat Bali has passed on at the age of 80. Plateau State Governor and Chairman Northern Governors Forum, Barr. Simon Lalong, who confirmed his death, said Plateau State and the nation has lost one of its patriotic and loyal sons. Lalong,… December 4, 2020 In "Top Stories" President Muhammadu Buhari is presiding over the National Security Council meeting in the State House, Abuja. The meeting, which holds quarterly, is coming amidst ongoing unrest in different parts of the country. In attendance are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha; Chief… October 22, 2020 In "Top Stories"