 The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry on Saturday confirmed that six Ukrainian nationals were among the crew members abducted off the coast of Nigeria from the Cameroon-flagged STEVIA cargo ship.
On Wednesday, pirates attacked the vessel in the Gulf of Guinea, having captured eight members of the crew, 28 nautical miles (51.8 kilometers) off the coast of Nigeria, reports ANI/Sputnik.
The daughter of one of the captured sailors said on Saturday that there were six Ukrainians aboard the vessel.
“Yes, we are aware of this situation. As a result of a pirate attack on the ship off the coast of Nigeria on December 16, eight crew members were captured, including six Ukrainian citizens,” a spokesman for the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry, Oleg Nikolenko, said as quoted by the Ukrinform news agency.
According to the diplomat, the shipowner of the STEVIA cargo ship is an Albanian company, so both the Ukrainian embassies in Nigeria and Albania are taking appropriate response measures.
The Gulf of Guinea is Africa’s most economically active and oil-rich region. Pirate activity in the region has increased in recent years, prompting Nigeria, Ghana, and other surrounding regions to set up a naval coordination operation to combat the phenomenon.  Pirates are making life difficult for ship owners in Nigeria’s maritime domain as kidnapping of crew members has now become the order of the day. Within the last nine months, there has been 40 per cent increase in the number of kidnap incidents, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports   In the last… November 18, 2020 In "Business" *As pirates demand $1.5m to release ship Egypt’s Foreign Ministry has said it was coordinating with Nigerian authorities to free two of its citizens after they were kidnapped by pirates. According to media reports, Saad Shawky and Kyrolos Samir were taken while they were on board a cargo ship off… December 5, 2020 In "News" ….efforts to end sea crime fruitless   Last week, a media report on a Greek website, disclosed that five Greek sailors have been abducted after their ship was attacked by pirates in Nigeria. The pirates reportedly took hostage of the captain and two sailors from the five Greeks who belong… December 6, 2020 In "Business"