The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has set a target of one million hectares for rice cultivation in 2020 dry season from 500,000 hectares achieved in 2019 under the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP). In addition to rice as focal value chain, the apex bank has expanded Commodity Association Window to cover more commodities like maize, cassava, sorghum, soybean and ginger, among others, with the hope of achieving economic diversification drive. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, gave the target yesterday in Minna, Niger State, at the input distribution to rice farmers and loan recovery drive under Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN)- CBN ABP. Emefiele expressed satisfaction with the modest achievements recorded under ABP. Represented by Deputy Governor (Corporate Services), Mr. Edward Adamu, he said: “From a modest pilot of 75,000 farmers in 26 states, the RIFAN-CBN ABP has now been fully established in all states of the federation and the FCT. With the deployment of technology, which covered farmers’ enumeration, biometric capture and GPS mapping of farms all embedded to enhance the operational efficiency of the ABP. “The 2018 wet season witnessed a geometric rise in beneficiaries, as about 275,000 farmers were empowered to cultivate 220,000 hectares across all the 37 states of the Federation and FCT. The target hectarage for 2019 was 500,000 and we hope to achieve one million by 2020 dry season.” On loan recovery, Emefiele said farmers had kept faith with repayment despite flood devastation they experienced. “Loan recovery is the hallmark of any credit process and the combination of this input distribution flagoff with loan recovery drive further demonstrates that this is a sustainable credit programme,” he said. In his opening remark, RIFAN President, Alhaji Muhammad Goronyo, commended CBN for its numerous support   …targets N432bn for 2020 wet season 1.1m farmers to benefit from funds The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has hinted of plans to release a framework for the integration of non-interest window in all its intervention programmes, including the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) and the Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) to… June 19, 2020 In "News" The recent announcement by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that it would soon release a framework for the integration of non-interest window in all its intervention programmes, particularly the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) and the Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) to support households and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)… June 24, 2020 In "Business" As part of efforts to help end the country’s overdependence on crude oil, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has, in recent years, increased support for the production of cash crops, such as cocoa and palm oil, writes TONY CHUKWUNYEM During a visit to the then Minister of Agriculture and… October 14, 2020 In "Business"