 Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu, will on Sunday, December 13 join other worshippers at the Christ Embassy Church, Oregun, Lagos.
Kalu, although of Catholic denomination, is known for his non-discrimination against religious faiths, and will use the opportunity to appreciate God for his unconditional love, mercy and uncommon blessings.
The service, which will be presided over by the Founder and President of Loveworld Incorporated (Christ Embassy), Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, will also be attended by family, friends and associates of the former governor.
Kalu, a philanthropist of repute, has impacted lives positively especially the downtrodden in the society, through his philanthropic platform – Orji Uzor Kalu Foundation.
Recall, the renowned politician, was a guest of Oyakhilome at the Christ Embassy Healing School at Pretoria, South Africa in 2019.
The Abia-born Senator, who has been consolidating on his network of contacts locally and internationally, has not formally declared his next political move.  Former Governor of Abia State and Senate’s Chief Whip, Senator Orji Kalu has commended the people of the state for their steadfastness, selflessness and patriotism as the state clocked 29 years. According to Kalu, the political class must place the collective interests of Abians above personal ambitions so as to… August 27, 2020 In "News" The Orji Uzor Kalu phenomenon in Abia State and national politics is evidently bulging into an enigma. Igbeaku Orji reports on how this played out during the Senate Chief Whip’s recent visit to the state he once governed The recent working visit to Abia State by the Senate Chief Whip… December 9, 2020 In "Politics" The All Progressives Congress (APC) women leaders in Abia State yesterday reassured Senate Chief Whip and former governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu of their loyalty and the party. Speaking on behalf of 17 women Leaders from17 local government areas of Abia at Kalu’s Igbere country home, the… September 24, 2020 In "News"