More than two months after the Ondo State governorship election was conducted, 10,000 police officers deployed for the election have lamented the non – payment of their allowances.  The Nigeria Police Force had deployed over 30,000 personnel to provide security at the State governorship election which took place on October 10.  They, however, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu to urgently approve payment of the allowances.  The personnel drawn from about 24 states in two batches spent at least one week in the state for the election duty. It was, however, gathered that shortly after the election, the personnel on the first batch were paid, but about 10,000 officers on the second batch are still expecting their allowance, with the fear that their monies must have been pocketed by the Police authority.  An Inspector who spoke with Sunday Telegraph said the development has dampened morale of the affected personnel. According to him, a police officer is supposed to earn between N40, 000 to N120, 000 depending on the rank as allowance for the election duty.  For instance in Ogun State, the police officers said none of them, numbering 300, were yet to be paid. Also, they added that, the police authority have been giving excuses that their accounts were incorrect whereas the same accounts are their salary accounts.   Dismisses siege to Wike's hotel as political drama •NASS Caucus protests harassment of Rivers' Gov   The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) yesterday explained that the deployment of 31,000 personnel to the governorship election in Edo State was not designed to intimidate voters but a deliberate attempt to sufficiently secure the… September 20, 2020 In "News" …as counting of votes yet to commence hours after voting The Police Command in Ondo State has deployed no fewer than 800 personnel to monitor the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election in the state. Police Public Relations Officer Tee-Leo Ikoro disclosed this while speaking with newsmen at the… July 23, 2020 In "News" In this analysis, BIYI ADEGOROYE argues that security agents must guarantee election integrity and exhibit professionalism instead of mere façade of physical presence in the forthcoming Edo and Ondo governorship elections   With the Supreme Court verdict upholding the Kogi State governorship election penultimate week, despite reported massive electoral violence,… September 13, 2020 In "Politics"