 Johnchuks Onuanyim, Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed joy over the release and safe return of the students of the Government Science Secondary School Kankara in Katsina State, who were abducted by terrorists, stating that the security agencies should avert a reoccurence.
The party gave the charge in a statement signed by the Governor of Yobe State and APC Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee Chairman, Mai Mala Buni, noting that their release was not just elating, but it was gladdening and relieving.
The party also apologised to the pupils and vowed that President Muhammadu Buhari and the party will do all it takes to make sure that they continue to study in a safe environment.
Over 300 students of the GSSS Kankara, Katsina State were abducted two Fridays ago.
Buni, in the statement said: “We want to congratulate the parents of the children and also apologise on behalf of our party that one of our biggest promises was security and although we are doing our utmost best, such incidence is a sad event and must, at all cost not repeat itself.
“When we received the news of the abduction at first, we were traumatised. We were heartbroken and this was the same for most, if not all Nigerians who heard of the unfortunate incidence.
“As a party, we called on Nigerians not to loose their hope in our government and the security apparatus.
“We thank all those who made this rescue effort possible, especially the governors of Katsina and Zamfara states and the security agents across the country.
“We do not doubt the capacity of our security agencies, we believe and know they are capable especially when they are well motivated and led, which we can assure is the case under President Muhammadu Buhari.
“We are trusting and hopeful that this episode will never repeat itself again. We encourage the Nigerian Armed Forces, the Police and other security agents to take lessons from the lapses that led to this abduction and ensure that we never see a repeat of this tragedy again.”
The party also congratulated the President for his determination to ensure the release of the boys.  ...on day 3, kidnappers gave us kuli kuli, uncooked potatoes •Don't be deterred by your bitter experience, Buhari tells students •FG: Boko Haram lied, schoolboys were kidnapped by bandits ...President coordinated operation leading to rescue •Come clean on abduction –PDP •Shehu admits error on number Fresh insights emerged last night… December 19, 2020 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has condemmed the abduction of the students of the Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State. The party, which likened the abduction to what happened in Chibok and Dapchi in Borno and Yobe states respectively a few years back, said insecurity is destroying the educational system… December 15, 2020 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has condemned the abduction of the students of the Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State.   The party, which likened the abductiontowhathappened in Chibok and Dapchi in Borno and Yobe states respectively a few years back, said insecurity was destroying the nation’s educationalsystem and… December 16, 2020 In "News"