Armed men have abducted the village head of Kaigar Malamai in Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State, alongside 15 others. Sahara Reporters, which quoted the Katsina Post, reported that the gunmen, in their numbers, invaded the village about midnight on Monday and operated for several hours after which they left with the victims.  “They invaded our village, Unguwar Malamai, about 11.45pm and began shooting sporadically. “They abducted 16 people, including the village head, Maiunguwa Kabir, six housewives, three young girls and six children.  “At that time, three of the gunmen forced one man to take them to the residence of his elder brother, using his motorcycle, which he did. Two of them went into the house and the other one who stood at the entrance asked the man to run away.  “When he left the place, he ran towards some security operatives and told them what was happening in the village, but instead of them to go and confront the gunmen, they asked the man to stay with them till day break,” a villager was quoted as saying.  On December 11, 2020, some bandits kidnapped 344 students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State. The students were released a week later.  But on December 19, 84 Islamiyya students of Hizburrahim Islamiyya at Mahuta village in Dandume Local Government Area of Katsina State were also abducted but they were rescued later.   Tragedy struck at Gidangizo village in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State on Wednesday as gunmen killed one victim and abducted two sisters of the same father. The victim, who met his untimely death, Nasiru Halilu, aged 37, was said to have engaged the bandits in an argument when… August 12, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen invaded Dutsin Gari and Rayau communities in Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara State and killed eight people. The armed men, said to be about 100, also burnt many houses. A resident of one of the attacked villages, who did not want his name mentioned for security reasons, said… January 20, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" Scores flee homes, several houses burnt   OPWS, Police keep mum   Gunmen have overrun four wards in Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of Benue State and murdered more than 100 people. The victims included women, children and the older people.   The suspected herdsmen also murdered at least 16 people… May 25, 2021 In "News"