 Thieves have stolen radio equipment from a Russian military plane known as the “doomsday aircraft” for its role in the country’s nuclear arsenal, state media report.
The reports say unknown thieves broke into the Ilyushin Il-80 plane at an airfield in the southern Rostov region.
They reportedly opened the cargo hatch and stole 39 pieces of radio equipment, reports the BBC.
The local government’s transport ministry said an investigation into the break-in was under way.
Military experts say the aircraft is one of four Il-80s designed to be used as airborne command posts for Russian officials, including the president, in the event of a nuclear conflict.
In a report on Monday, state news agency Interfax said the aircraft had been undergoing scheduled repairs at an airfield in the port city of Taganrog since the beginning of 2019.
Officials from the Taganrog Aviation Scientific and Technical Complex reported the theft to local police on 4 December, the agency said.
Citing an unnamed Russian police source, the agency said a cargo-hatch breach was discovered during an inspection of the aircraft. It added that authorities were considering opening a criminal investigation.
All equipment had been intact at the last inspection on 26 November, said the Ren-TV broadcaster, which first reported the break-in. Investigators took fingerprints and shoeprints from inside the aircraft, the broadcaster added .
The aircraft is one of four Il-80s currently in service with the Russian Air Force, though only three are operational. Interfax described them as among the force’s most classified aircraft.
Should a nuclear war break out, the Russian president would board the aircraft, where he or she could potentially order the launch of intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) and make other strategic decisions.
With no external windows except in the cockpit, the aircraft are designed to have some protection from the effects of a nuclear blast. The US operates a similar fleet of airborne command posts, called E-4B Nightwatch.
In May last year, Russia’s Deputy Defence Minister Alexei Krivoruchko said work was under way to upgrade and re-equip the country’s Il-80s.
A new generation of airborne command posts are reported to be in development as well.
Russia’s Tass news agency reported in October that the Il-80s are scheduled to be replaced by a new model, the Il-96-400M, but did not give a timeframe.  An Air India Express plane with 191 people on board has crashed at an airport in the southern state of Kerala, killing at least 16 people, officials say. The Boeing 737, en route from Dubai, skidded off the runway in rain and broke in two after landing at Calicut airport,… August 7, 2020 In "Top Stories" …warns airlines over doctoring CVR   The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) has said that inappropriate landing techniques used and non-adherence to company procedures by pilots of a Caverton Helicopter chartered by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo led to the accident in Okene, Kogi State.   This is coming as the Commissioner… July 29, 2020 In "News" At least 22 people including military cadets were killed and two others were seriously injured when a Ukrainian air force plane crashed near Kharkiv in the east of the country, the interior ministry said. Deputy interior minister Anton Gerashchenko confirmed the death toll, describing the incident as a “shock”,… September 26, 2020 In "News"