*Chelsea draw to top Group E Ole Gunnar Solskjær said Manchester United “didn’t turn up” as they lost 3-2 at RB Leipzig and crashed out of the Champions League, having needed only a point to qualify for the last 16.
While the manager pinpointed the earlier Group H defeat at Istanbul Basaksehir as also being pivotal, amateurish defending was to blame for all three Leipzig goals and so United now drop into the Europa League last 32, reports The Guardian.
“We didn’t perform as a team well enough,” Solskjær said. “That is the manager’s responsibility. We never got going – we didn’t turn up until they got the second goal. You can’t say that we were good enough. We weren’t good enough. We were in a difficult group and obviously the big turning point was the loss away in Istanbul. That’s where we lost points we should have got. Today we had to defend crosses into the box and we just didn’t deal with them.”
After only two minutes Aaron Wan-Bissaka allowed an unmarked Angeliño to score from a long diagonal, then the right-back again lost the on-loan Manchester City player as he created Amadou Haidara’s second on 13 minutes.
On 69 minutes Justin Kluivert made it 3-0, Harry Maguire this time failing to clear. While Bruno Fernandes and Paul Pogba scored late on it was not enough.
The errors followed a similarly poor defensive display at Basaksehir in the 2-1 defeat in November, with Demba Ba’s opener deriving from United leaving the forward unmarked near halfway from their own corner.
Solskjær urged his players to pick themselves up for the weekend visit of City for the derby. “As a footballer you have to feel sorry for a few minutes and then focus on Saturday, that is a massive game and it is something we have to look forward to,” he said.
Pogba made an impact on entering as a second‑half replacement. His agent, Mino Raiola, stated on the eve of the match that the midfielder is unhappy at United and it would be best for all if he left in January. Solskjær said: “You have to ask Paul if he is happy or not, I’m not going to speak for him. Paul is focused on doing his best for the team and when he’s here he’s working hard in training [and] just needs to focus on his performances.”
He denied Raiola’s comments had disrupted preparations for the match. “The squad is fine – they are a team and they stick together. As soon as Paul’s agent realises it is a team sport the better. I don’t want to spend energy on that. I am not going to talk about Paul’s agent any more.”
Meanwhile, midfielder Jorginho scored from the spot as Chelsea finished their successful Champions League Group E campaign with a point against Krasnodar.
Frank Lampard made 10 changes to the side that defeated Leeds at the weekend, giving a first senior start to Tino Anjorin, while fellow 19-year-old midfielder Billy Gilmour made his first start since recovering from injury.
The ‘second string’ Blues dominated the early possession, but the Russian side looked dangerous on the break and took the lead in the 24th minute through Remy Cabella. The former Newcastle player started and finished the move with a low shot that sneaked in past the reach of Kepa Arrizabalaga.
However, four minutes later the English side were level when Jorginho converted a penalty after Tammy Abraham had been fouled in the area by Brazilian midfielder Kaio.
England striker Abraham also went close with a low shot that was deflected wide by the boot of keeper Evgeni Gorodov.
The Blues finish Group E as winners with 14 points from their six games.  Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says his players "will put it right" after they missed a chance to climb into the Premier League's top four by conceding an injury-time equaliser against Southampton. United led 2-1 for 73 minutes before substitute Michael Obafemi scored in the 96th minute, bundling… July 14, 2020 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjær has taken a swipe at his critics after leading Manchester United back into the Champions League, saying their gloomy forecasts had driven him on. Solskjær’s team won 2-0 at Leicester on the final day to secure a third-placed finish – an achievement that had been hard to predict with any… July 27, 2020 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjær has denied he will be frustrated if Manchester United do not strengthen as markedly as Liverpool, Manchester City and Chelsea, saying this would be “disrespectful” to Donny van de Beek. The manager has signed only the 24-year-old midfielder in the window, for an initial £34.7m from Ajax, but… September 26, 2020 In "Sports"