For the sixth time, aggrieved contractors yesterday blocked the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, demanding the payment of jobs they executed for the Ministry. The contractors claimed that the Ministry has refused to pay for the jobs completed since 2018. Leader of the Concerned 2018 Unpaid Contractors, Emeka Ihekwe, said the aggrieved contractors have resolved to flood the Ministry with members of their families to totally occupy the offices, should the government still hold on to their payment. According to him, the officials of the Ministry have been making promises on the payment of the over N17 billion debt, but the Permanent Secretary has continually reneged. Some of the contractors, Agatha Nwahiri and Wisdom Ochonma, claimed that the Ministry had sent its officers to verify the jobs in the various sites across the country, and have established the authenticity of the contractors’ claims. Another aggrieved contractor, Abdullahi Tajudeen, alleged that the Permanent Secretary was delaying the payments for his selfish interest. He said: “The seven-day ultimatum we gave the Ministry had expired and the Ministry had refused to keep to their words to pay us. “From Wednesday, we are going to flood the Ministry with members of our family for a total shut down, and we will occupy there until we are paid.” While no official from the Ministry came out to address the contractors, a letter purportedly written and signed by one Hassan Mohammed, on behalf of Agriculture Minister was obtained by our correspondent. “The ministry has made a request to the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning for the settlement of the debt and the request is being accorded the necessary attention,” the letter stated.   Caleb Onwe, Abuja There was palpable tension on Tuesday as aggrieved contractors blocked the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the sixth time, demanding for the payment of jobs they allegedly executed for the ministry. The contractors, who claimed that the payment of their completed jobs since 2018,… December 8, 2020 In "News" Thousands of local contractors yesterday besieged Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning to press for release of their outstanding payment which they claimed spanned between five and 12 years.   With a chant of "Zainab pay us, you paid your contractor husband", aggrieved contractors barricaded entrance to the… September 1, 2020 In "News" Local contractors in their large numbers recently protested against Federal Government’s inability to pay them, years after they completed supplies to the Federal Ministry of Finance, Abuja. Abdulwahab Isa reports The Federal Government is the largest spender. With trillions of expenditure outlay every fiscal year, the policy plan is a… September 24, 2020 In "Business"