 Fulani herdsmen have attacked and killed four people and left seven battling with various degrees of injuries at Tse-Angbande in Makurdi Local Government Area of Benue State.
Governor Samuel Ortom, who visited the scene of the attack on Saturday morning, said the armed herdsmen in their usual guerrilla pattern struck by 11pm on Friday when the people were asleep, killing Timothy Emberga Akwa, Innocent Akwa, Terhemba Emberga Akwa and an in-law identified as Orban.
The governor while condemning the barbaric act recalled that a few weeks ago, the herders came without cattle and killed a husband and wife at Tse-Tyohemba, in the same axis of Makurdi, saying that security agents trailed and apprehended three of the assailants.
He assured the people that security has been beefed up to ensure 24 hours vigilance in the affected area to prevent a reoccurrence of the ugly development and urged people of the affected communities to cooperate with security operatives.
The governor while addressing the people at Adaka said enforcement of the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law of the state must continue no matter what armed herders do.  *As army kills two herdsmen, recover assorted weapons, ammunition   Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi   Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom Saturday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare armed Fulani herdsmen killing innocent people in communities of the state as terrorists, even as the Nigerian Army neutralised two suspected herdsmen who… July 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" •As army kills two herdsmen, recover assorted weapons, ammunition B enue State Governor Samuel Ortom Saturday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare armed Fulani herdsmen killing innocent people in communities of the state as terrorists, even as the Nigerian Army neutralised two suspected herdsmen who invaded Chembe community in… July 12, 2020 In "News" ...farmer beheaded in Ortom's ward     Herdsmen have murdered at least four people in Plateau and Benue states. The gunmen, who residents said were Fulani, killed one in Plateau State and three others in Benue State.   The herdsmen armed with sophisticated weapons killed the Acting Gwom Rwei of… September 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"