Residents of communities in Rafi, Shiroro and Munya local government areas of Niger State have fled their homes over incessant bandits’ bloody attacks. The bandits recently killed a cleric, a vigilante and abducted over 20 villagers. They destroyed the villagers’ foodstuffs and properties.  The New Telegraph learnt that the villagers started fleeing from their communities to Tegina, Kuta and Minna for safety after the bandits razed 11 communities. Some of the villagers from Rafi-Doko, Yakila, Katako and other surrounding villages are flocking into Tegina with loads on their heads.  Some residents told our correspondent yesterday that they were demanding from the Niger State government a safe environment to set up a camp where they could stay until there was improved security. The people also bemoaned the inaction of the government over the insecurity bedevilling the communities.  “We have been abandoned to our fate,” some of them said. Meanwhile, critical stakeholders, it was learnt, are currently meeting over the security situation in the affected areas and how to address it.  The Director-General (DG) of the Niger State Emergency Management Ag ency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ibrahim Inga, said  the people were fleeing their communities for safety.  He said: “The state government is not silent about the issue but it is putting in place measures to give the people succour. I can assure you that the measures will be proactive and the security situation in the state will be addressed.”  But the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Wasiu Abiodun, could not be reached on his mobile line at press time.  ... As bandits raze 11 communities in Rafi LGA Following the incessant attacks by armed bandits in various communities, villagers in some of the security challenged communities in Rafi, Shiroro and Munya local government areas of Niger State have abandoned their homes. The bandits, who have been having a field… December 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits numbering over 50 have killed a pastor of ECWA Church, Rev Jeremiah Ibrahim, and abducted 12 people, including the cleric’s wife in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State.   It was learnt that Ibrahim was killed in Chikuba town after he came out of hiding. Narrating the incident… December 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bandits have killed 22 people, among them 17 vigilantes, a police officer and a woman in three local government areas of Niger State. The bandits also injured several others and abducted more than 30 people. The New Telegraph was informed that the bandits killed about 17 vigilantes in Dukku town… September 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"