  The Kardashians are heading back to TV, despite bringing an end earlier this year to the reality show that shot the family to fame.
Streaming service Hulu on Thursday announced it had signed a deal with Kim, Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian, their mother Kris Jenner and half sisters Kylie and Kendall Jenner.
Under the deal, the women will create new content that will stream on Disney-owned Hulu in the United States and in multiple countries overseas on Star, Hulu said.
Hulu did not say whether the women, who have tens of millions of followers on Instagram and Twitter, would appear on screen and did not give details of the programming they would create under the multi-year deal, reports Reuters.
The platform said the new content was expected to debut in late 2021.
The announcement came three months after the Los Angeles-based family announced it was ending “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” on NBCUniversal’s E! network in 2021 after 14 years.
They gave no reasons for the decision but the E! network said at the time that the family had decided “to live their lives without our cameras.”
“Keeping Up with the Kardashians,” which chronicled the personal lives of the family, helped make the women household names and launched their careers in the fashion, modeling and beauty business.  Kris Jenner has denied allegations of sexual harassment and exposing herself after being sued by a former bodyguard. The Kardashian "momager" is alleged to have subjected the man to "unwanted and unwelcome" sexual advances while he was working in security - a claim described as "ludicrous" by her lawyer, reports Sky… October 1, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Kim Kardashian West has announced her family’s long-running reality TV show will end after a final season next year. Keeping Up With the Kardashians premiered in 2007 and made worldwide stars out of the family, reports the Press Association. It will come to an end after its 20th season in… September 9, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The popular reality TV show 'Keeping Up With The Kardashians' will be going off-air in 2021 as confirmed in a statement issued by Kim Kardashian on Thursday, where the Kardashian clan say they have decided to no longer film the E! reality series. “To our amazing fans, It is with… September 12, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"