 Russia’s five-time world champion weightlifter and Olympic medallist Tatiana Kashirina has been temporarily suspended for an anti-doping rule violation.
Kashirina, who won silver at the 2012 Olympics and five gold medals at the World Championships between 2010 and 2018, was one of the favourites for a gold medal at next year’s Tokyo Games, reports Reuters.
According to Russian news agency, TASS, Kashirina, 29, was suspended after the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) took results of doping tests of Russian athletes between 2012 and 2015 from the Moscow Laboratory during an investigation.
She previously served a two-year suspension from 2006-08 for violating anti-doping rules and her latest ban will prevent her from competing during the Games qualification period which runs until April 2021.
Kashirina would have had to compete as a neutral as Russian athletes remain barred from major international events, including the Olympics, under the country’s flag until 2022.
A Swiss court upheld doping sanctions on Russia this week but halved the original four-year WADA ban.  The  former head of world athletics governing body, Lamine Diack of Senegal  was convicted in France on Wednesday of corruption in a Russian doping scandal and sentenced to spend at least two years in jail. He is 87 years old and would almost be 90 by the time he finishes… September 16, 2020 In "Sports" *Tokyo Olympics, French election targeted Six current and former Russian military officers sought to disrupt through computer hacking the French election, the Winter Olympics and U.S. hospitals and businesses, according to a Justice Department indictment unsealed Monday. It details destructive attacks on a broad range of targets and implicates the… October 19, 2020 In "News" The Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) has debunked as misleading a report in a national daily that Nigerian athletes risk missing out of next year's Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan because of the addition of Nigeria to the highest category (A) of nations having the highest doping risk to the… November 26, 2020 In "Sports"