Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has reiterated the need for the country to discontinue with heavy dependence on crude oil to guarantee public revenue and foreign exchange.  Emefiele made the call on Saturday in Abuja at the prize presentation ceremony to mark the end of the 2020 CBN Governor’s Golf Cup tournament.  The governor, who was represented by CBN’s Deputy Governor, Corporate Services, Mr. Edward Adamu, urged the country to harness its other economic potentials to enhance its growth.  According to him, this has become imperative in order to facilitate early exit of the economy from the current recession. He said sports cannot be left behind while deploying available tools to ensure the development of the country since it attracts foreign exchange.   This, he said, had propelled the CBN into sponsoring numerous sporting events in the country, including golf.    He said that the apex bank would not relent in its effort to empower the youth, sportsmen and sportswomen as they had constantly launched the country and themselves into the international sporting arena.  “The bank’s consistency in promoting the game of golf and other sports in the country has had a remarkable impact on youths and sportsmen and women generally. “In particular, the sponsored events have continued to provide platforms for Nigerians to express themselves and launch into the international sporting sphere.  “At the CBN, we are committed to sustaining peoplecentred policies,” he said. According to him, through interventions in various sectors of the economy, the bank is able to touch lives and livelihoods; specifically, the bank’s policies prioritise jobs, wealth creation and inclusion.  “The CBN has been in the vanguard of promoting youth empowerment not only through sporting events, but also through development finance initiatives and schemes.  “These include Youth Entrepreneurship Development Scheme, Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Development Centres.  “Others are the Agri- Business and Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme and the Private Sector-led Accelerated Agricultural Credit Scheme,” he added.  Nigeria finally seems to be on the road to achieving its longstanding quest for export diversification as the country’s economic indicators are beginning to reflect the results of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s intervention measures, writes Tony Chukwunyem   In the wake of the massive shock that weak oil… August 26, 2020 In "Business" Recently, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) disbursed N34.34 billion to major oil palm companies to plant new 100,000 hectares of palm trees by 2025. Also, the apex bank released over N700 million to 1,221 cocoa farmers in 10 states. These developments are aimed at bringing back the pre-oil boom… October 9, 2020 In "Business" …says economy to exit recession in Q1 2021 Nigeria’s current recession is likely to be shortlived as the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) has predicted that the country’s economy will not only exit recession by the first quarter of next year, but would post 2.0 per cent growth by the end… November 28, 2020 In "News"