 Security operatives have besieged the Lekki tollgate in Lagos to prevent further #EndSARS protests.
Soldiers and policemen were said to have arrived at the tollgate in four trucks on Monday morning.
Commuters said that the gun-wielding security operatives placed themselves in strategic locations around the area.
It was also learnt that youths have started gathering around the area to resume the protest.
In October, the #EndSARS protest took place at Lekki and at different locations in the state for more than two weeks.
The protest was later hijacked by hoodlums which led to loss of lives and property.
On October 20, soldiers invaded the Lekki tollgate and allegedly shot some of the protesters.
In November, Mohammed Adamu, the inspector-general of police (IGP), said the force would never allow another type of #EndSARS protest again, adding that the police are ready to face anyone who participates in the protest.
President Muhammadu Buhari had also said the government would prevent a repeat of the protest.  The Lagos Observers Group (LOG) says Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, must apologise to the Nigerian Army for misleading the general public on the EndSARS protests. The group said this has become paramount after reviewing circumstances that led to the escalation of violence in the state during the protest while analysing the… November 15, 2020 In "News" *Says Army's unhappy Sanwo-Olu denied inviting them Brig. Gen. Ahmed Taiwo of the Nigerian Army has alleged that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu invited the military during the End SARS in Lagos to avoid total anarchy. Taiwo is the Commander, 81 Military Intelligence Brigade, Victoria Island. He also said the Nigerian Army… November 14, 2020 In "Top Stories" A special report has revealed that Amnesty International succumbed to social media exaggeration and fake news in its report on the Lekki toll gate shootings in Lagos State.  The Centre for International and Strategic Studies (CISS) said it arrived at this conclusion after a systematic analysis of the events that led… November 2, 2020 In "News"