…as govt approves new Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine The new, faster-spreading coronavirus variant makes up the majority of new cases in the UK, Health Secretary Matt Hancock has told Sky News.
The recent surge of COVID-19 cases was largely due to the variant which may be up to 70% more infectious than the original one, Hancock said.
“The ‘supress the virus’ bit has got a whole lot harder since the new variant really got going over December,” he said.
“Now the majority of the new cases in the UK are the new variant. It is much, much easier to transmit from one person to another.”
The faster transmission had put extreme pressure on the NHS, Hancock added.
“It is absolutely critical that people follow the rules and do everything they can to stop the spread, particularly of the new variant of this virus that transmits so much faster.”
“So, the challenge of supressing the virus has got harder, but thankfully, the cavalry has arrived in terms of not one but two vaccines, and we’ve got to get them into people’s arms as quickly as they’re produced.”
He was referring to the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine that on Wednesday became the second coronavirus jab to be approved for UK use.
Scientists predicted the new variant, which has driven tougher restrictions across the country, would quickly become the dominant one.
Addressing the rise, Hancock will announce changes to COVID-19 rules in a statement to MPs later Wednesday.  ...as Germany's confirmed cases rise by 14,455 France has confirmed the first case in the country of the more contagious coronavirus variant recently identified in the UK. The French health ministry said the person was a French citizen in the central town of Tours who had arrived from London on… December 26, 2020 In "News" The NHS has been asked to be ready to deploy a coronavirus vaccine from the start of December, Health Secretary Matt Hancock has told Sky News. It was announced on Monday that a COVID-19 vaccine, being developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, has been found to be 90% effective in preventing people from getting… November 10, 2020 In "News" Singapore has confirmed its first case of the new coronavirus variant found in the United Kingdom, the city-state said, while 11 others who were already in quarantine had returned preliminarily positive results for the new strain. All the cases, which were imported from Europe, had been placed in… December 24, 2020 In "News"