Troops of Operation Lafiya Dole on Saturday killed more than 20 Boko Haram terrorists and captured equipment in an attempt to attack Askira Uba in Borno.  The Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, 7 Division Maiduguri, Col. Ado Isa, disclosed this in a statement yesterday. Isa said the terrorists who mounted on 15 gun-trucks suspected to have come from Sambisa Forest, approached the town from different directions simultaneously.  He said the troops responded and engaged the criminals with superior fire power, with the terrorists suffering huge losses both in men, materials and equipment. “Specifically, the troops captured four gun trucks from the criminals while some additional gun trucks were also destroyed by the Air Task Force that responded swiftly.  “Scores of the terrorists were killed and over 20 terrorists’ dead bodies were counted.  “Additionally, three boxer motorcycles, three Anti-Aircraft Guns, two PKT Machine Guns, 10 AK 47 Rifles and 13 Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG) Bombs as well as large cache of ammunition and other weapons were captured. Isa said that one soldier was killed while two others were wounded during the encounter, adding that the wounded were stable and responding to treatment.   “May God grant repose to the soul of the dead soldier and quick recovery to the two wounded in action. “Troops under the guidance of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, will continue to sustain the aggressive, offensive posture to rid the entire North-East of remnants of Boko Haram/ ISWAP terrorists,’’ he said.  In June, troops on clearance operations in the North- East theatre had 17 fierce encounters with suspected Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) elements.   The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General John Enenche, who made the disclosure in a statement, noted that 75 of… July 6, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...says 10 gun trucks, seven AA guns, others recovered   Officer, two soldiers die   At least, 75 suspected terrorists were killed by troops in the counter-insurgency operations in the North-East between September 28 and October 31. During the operations "meant to clear the remnants of the… November 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Troops of the Operation Fire Ball deployed to Operation Lafiya Dole of Nigerian Army have killed 22 members of Boko Haram/Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP). The troops also recovered a cache of arms and ammunition as part of efforts to finally root out the insurgents. However, six soldiers… November 25, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"