 Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan Following the Oyo State Police Command’s efforts towards rescuing two Indians abducted in the state last Wednesday, the bodies of two persons (a soldier and a civilian) were recovered on Sunday, the Police Public Relations Officer, Gbenga Fadeyi, has said.
Fadeyi in a statement on Sunday night, however, said negotiations with the captors of the Indians who were abducted around Ibadan Toll Gate while coming out of a pharmaceutical firm, was being concealed from the Police.
According to the PPRO in the release  captioned: “Abduction on 12/12/2020″, At about 17.23 hrs, one Hassan Mills ‘m’ of Panorama Farm Mekun, Oke Alaro area of Ibadan was abducted at the entrance of his farm by unknown gun men who shot sporadically before taking him away into the forest.
“In a swift response, the DPO Oke Alaro, combed the forest with a view to rescuing the abductor from his captors and also arrest the culprits. Consequent upon this, a team of Ops Burst which was invited by the company arrived the area and proceeded to the forest. Not too long, one Army Lieutenant sustained gunshot injury on his right lap, and was immediately taken to the hospital while the Personal Assistant to the abductor who was also abducted, escaped during exchange of gunfire.
“On 13/12/2020, two corpses of one soldier and a civilian were discovered from the forest while a civil defence personnel also sustained gun shot injury after a search in the forest. It is worthy of note that movement of these foreign nationals most of the time are not known to the Police authority in the state to enable professional advice to be given appropriately. Also, negotiation with the captors was also concealed from the Police.
“Meanwhile, efforts are being intensified to arrest the hoodlums and also rescue the abductor. Well meaning and good people of Oyo State with useful and credible information as to the whereabout of the captors/abductor should furnish the Police in Oyo State for a rescue operation to be carried out immediately, please.”  Armed men have kidnapped the Chairman of Iganna Local Council Development Area of Oyo State, Comrade Jacob Olayiwola Adeleke. Adeleke was abducted alongside his driver on Sunday evening on Okeho-Ado Awaye Road while on his way to Ibadan for a meeting with Governor Seyi Makinde, which was scheduled for yesterday… October 27, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Oyo State Police Commissioner, Joe Enwonwu, yesterday said his men were on the trail of the gunmen who abducted two foreigners in Ibadan on Wednesday.   The two foreigners (names not yet known) were kidnapped about 4pm at a pharmaceutical firm near the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway Toll Gate.   The… December 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Oyo State Police Commissioner, Mr Joe Enwonwu, has said that his men were on the trail of kidnappers who abducted two foreigners in Ibadan last Wednesday. The two foreigners (names not yet known) were said to have been kidnapped around 4pm on Wednesday evening at a pharmaceutical firm, near the… December 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"