 Taiwo Jimoh No fewer than 500 people have been arrested by police in Lagos State for not wearing face marks in various part of the state.
The Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, who paraded the suspects      Monday at the Command’s headquarters in Ikeja, said anybody seen walking on the road, dancing in clubs, inside a vehicle, in churches, mosques, shops and markets without wearing face mask would be arrested and prosecuted.
According to him using a handkerchief in place of nose cover will not be accepted in the state.
He said: “Handkerchiefs cannot be taken for face masks, they are different.”
According to him a handkerchief is worse because they are used to wipe sweat, dirt and other impurities, and thus  can cause more harm than not wearing nose masks.
“We arrested them, because they were not wearing face masks. Don’t see policemen as wicked people they are only carrying out their duty that is beneficial to you and other people.
“Despite warning by the state and Federal Government about COVID-19, yet clubs and pubs are still operating. It is our responsibility to protect and save lives. COVID-19 is real. What I want you to know is that gathering in clubs or places where there is no social distancing will not be accepted in the state.”  Many Nigerians are currently not complying with all COVID-19 safety measures and protocols, such as compulsory wearing of facemasks in the public, regular washing of hands and the use of hand sanitizers , saying that the government at all levels are not truthful about the pandemic status in the country,… November 22, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine" Adherence to the new Health Protection Regulations 2021 signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari last week, is low. Investigations by the New Telegraph revealed that since the law became effective on Monday, a lot of people in Lagos State have been moving in public places without their nose mask.… February 4, 2021 In "Health" Sequel to the noncompliance with the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) protocols to control the spread of COVID-19 in the country, commercial drivers and some other concerned Nigerians are wondering if the country has won the battle over the virus. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports   It seems many Nigerians and… February 21, 2021 In "Sunday Magazine"