 Wanted former chairman of the Pension Reform Task Team (PRTT), Abdulrasheed Maina, who jumped bail, has been arrested in Niger Republic.
The fugitive pension thief was arrested Monday evening by the operatives of Niger Republic intelligence service.
The arrest was done in collaboration with Nigeria’s Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
According to PR Nigeria, the arrest was made possible due to an existing mutual relationship and security agreement between the two neighbouring countries.
EFCC operatives had learnt of Maina’s escape to Niger about two weeks ago and had worked with that country’s security forces to effect his arrest.
Maina, along with his company, is facing a 12-count charge of money laundering, to the tune of N2 billion.
His trial continued last week in absentia.
Maina jumped bail since 29 September.
Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court last week sent to jail Senator Ali Ndume, Maina’s surety. He was released on Friday.  The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday, ordered Senator Ali Ndume to be remanded in Kuje Prison following  Abdulrasheed Maina, former Chairman, defunct Pension Reformed Task Team's (PRTT) refusal to appear for his trial. Justice Okon Abang gave the order when Ndume, who represents Borno South Senatorial District, failed… November 23, 2020 In "News" The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Wednesday, ordered the revocation of Abdulrasheed Maina, former Chairman, defunct Pension Reformed Task Team (PRTT)’s bail. Justice Okon Abang, who gave the order in a ruling, also issued a bench warrant for Maina’s arrest anywhere he is sighted. The EFCC’s Lawyer, Mohammed Abubakar,… November 18, 2020 In "News" The Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday revoked the bail it earlier granted Faisal Maina, Abdulrasheed Maina’s son, and ordered his arrest for jumping bail in his trial on money laundering charges. Justice Okon Abang also ordered that his trial would proceed in absentia pending when the security… November 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"