…Bans physical meeting  The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has introduced some market-focused adjustments to be adopted in the interim in response to the second wave of COVID-19.  This follows the Federal Ministry of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) warning that the country is on the verge of a second wave of the pandemic.  SEC in a circular to regulated entities and capital market stakeholders at the weekend said: “In light of the rising number of new cases, the Commission wishes to provide the following guidance.  “All stakeholders in the Nigerian capital market are encouraged to adhere to all recent directives by the relevant agencies on safety and social distancing. At this time, the commission is focused on ensuring the continuity of its operations; monitoring activities in the market and systemic risks; providing  to issuers, trading platforms, capital market operators and other stakeholders impacted by COVID-19; and protection of investors.”
The commission noted that market-focused adjustments to be adopted in the interim in response to the recent advice from mentioned agencies and possible effects of the second wave of COVID-19 included that until further notice, all applications and all returns should be made electronically to dedicated email addresses.
The commission directed that all physical meetings and visits to the commission are suspended until further notice.
“Capital market operators and other stakeholders are encouraged to conduct meetings and other engagements virtually.
“Public companies are advised to take appropriate precautionary measures as recommended by the federal and state governments as well as the NCDC to ensure the safety of shareholders and participants at annual general meetings/extra-ordinary general meetings and other meetings which may be held during the prevalence of the pandemic.  “It is important to note that the foregoing guidelines are not exhaustive, but rather represent an outline of immediate actions the commission considers necessary to sustain the actualisation of its regulatory mandate and maintain the integrity of the Nigerian capital market during this challenging period.  “Accordingly, the commission will continue to issue updates to market stakeholders as appropriate. The commission will also continue to closely coordinate with other financial regulators and governmental authorities,” SEC said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission has said it will strictly enforce all rules that guide the operations of the capital market so as to restore investors confidence.   The Director-General, SEC, Lamido Yuguda, said this at the first capital market committee meeting, which was attended virtually by over 240 stakeholders… August 25, 2020 In "Business" The Capital Market Support Committee on COVID-19 (CMSCC) has commended the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for assisting the Federal Government combat COVID- 19 in the country. Acting Director General of the SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, stated this in Abuja on Thursday when she led other members of the committee… July 3, 2020 In "Business" The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is exploring various avenues to bring more companies to list on the capital market and to increase the number of products in the market.   The commission said the initiative would raise the market capitalisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and contribute to… December 8, 2020 In "Business"