 Philip Nyam, Abuja The minority caucus in the House of Representatives has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to ignore the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami and appear before the parliament on the nation’s state of insecurity.
The caucus, in a statement Thursday morning by the Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, faulted the last minute claim by the Attorney General that the National Assembly lacks powers to invite the president to address Nigerians on the growing insecurity, killings and acts of terrorism in the country.
He stated that such assertion by the Attorney General amounts to standing the law on its head and portrays him as an officer who is not in touch with the laws and the realities on ground.
“We as lawmakers, therefore, urge President Buhari not to allow officials like Abubakar Malami to ridicule his office and further alienate him from Nigerians.
“Mr. President, having agreed to appear before the House and given that the invitation is backed by the constitution, should take steps to honour invitation and not allow himself to be distracted by persons who have demonstrated that they do not wish the nation well.”
The opposition leader noted that the same section 218 cited by the Attorney General as well as sections 88 and 89  clearly grant the National Assembly the powers to request Mr. President’s attention on his handling of security and operations of the armed forces.
“Section 89 (1) of the 1999 Constitution as amended clearly empowers the Senate or the House of Representatives or a committee appointed in accordance with Section 62 of the Constitution, to procure evidence, written or oral, and to ‘summon any person in Nigeria to give evidence at any place,'” he stated.
Elumelu noted that President Buhari, in response to the constitutional invitation, had already agreed to appear before the House to address Nigerians.
“Mr. President’s apparent backward steps on the invitation just because handlers like Abubakar Malami, are afraid of the people, puts him in very bad light before Nigerians and the world,” the caucus stated.
The caucus described as “reckless” the claims by the Attorney General that by inviting Mr. President to address Nigerians, the House of Representatives overstepped its bounds.  President Muhammadu Buhari's planned appearance before the House of Representatives today to address the lawmakers on the state of insecurity in the country may not hold after all. Although there was no official statement confirming the president's change of mind, it was clear that the leadership of the National Assembly… December 10, 2020 In "News" There was a high class drama yesterday in the nation's capital, Abuja, following the arrest and interrogation of the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, for alleged corruption and money laundering.   Magu was reportedly picked up as he was leaving… July 7, 2020 In "News" Omo-Agege backs AGF as Ozekhome, Ojaomo kick The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) has declared that the National Assembly lacks the power to summon President Muhammadu Buhari to address the House of Representatives on the spate of insecurity in the country. Buhari had… December 10, 2020 In "News"