Troops deployed to tackle the bandits attacking residents and travellers across Kaduna State have rescued 39 people on the Kaduna-Abuja Road and Kaduna-Zaria Road.   The encounter with the bandits occurred between Sunday night and Monday morning. However, some people sustained injuries. The Kaduna State government has confirmed the incident, saying it received the feedback from the military in different locations in the state.  The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, disclosed that the “military thwarted bandits on the Kaduna-Abuja and Kaduna-Zaria roads on Sunday, 29th November and early hours of Monday, 30th November 2020”.  He said: “At Kwanar Tsintsiya axis of Kaduna-Zaria Road, Igabi Local Government Area, troops of 4 Battalion Nigerian Army, overpowered the armed bandits that were shooting at motorists plying the route.  “One of the bandits was neutralised while several escaped with bullet wounds.  Furthermore, the troops rescued 39 persons travelling to Onitsha from Sokoto from the armed bandits. “The troops are still trailing the bandits to areas said to be their enclave.  “The troops also responded to distress calls about bandits attacking and rustling in the same general area. On arriving the location, the troops recovered 69 cattle while one of the armed bandits was neutralised.  “On the Kaduna-Abuja Road, bandits advancing towards the Audu-Jungom axis in Chikun Local Government Area on Sunday 29th November 2020 were repelled by troops.  “The bandits were pursued to Ungwan Tuta, from where the troops lost contact with the bandits, they were denied freedom of action as they couldn’t carry out their nefarious act.  “In the early hours of Monday, 30th November 2020, troops successfully dislodged armed bandits along the Kaduna-Abuja Road. However, a stray bullet fired by the criminals hit a driver and a passenger.”  It has been a harrowing experience for the government and people of Kaduna State since 2015. The state has moved from one form of violence to another, ranging from killings, banditary, kidnapping and other vices. BABA NEGEDU reports that many are now wondering about what went wrong with the once… December 23, 2020 In "City Life" At least nine bandits were killed while several others were injured in a gun battle with soldiers on the Kaduna- Abuja Road. The Kaduna State government said the bandits were trying to move rustled cattle from one end of the highway to another when troops swooped on them, following a… December 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Security agencies didn’t abandon Kaduna-Abuja highway -Govt   Two men, a driver and a passenger, were killed when bandits attacked travellers on the Kaduna-Abuja highway. The incident occurred on Sunday evening. However, troops deplored in the area have rescued nine people kidnapped by the bandits.   The Kaduna State Commissioner… November 17, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"