 The COVID-19 pandemic has fueled a 40% increase in the number of people needing humanitarian assistance around the globe, the United Nations said on Tuesday, as it appealed for roughly $35 billion to help many of those expected to be in need next year.
“If everyone who will need humanitarian aid next year lived in one country, it would be the world’s fifth largest nation,” U.N. aid chief Mark Lowcock said.
“The pandemic has wreaked carnage across the most fragile and vulnerable countries,” he added.
The United Nations has set out 34 humanitarian response plans covering 56 countries for 2021, aiming to help 160 million of what it forecasts to be 235 million most vulnerable people worldwide facing hunger, conflict and the impacts of climate change and the coronavirus pandemic, reports Reuters.
“We always aim to reach about two-thirds of those in need because others, for example the Red Cross, will try to meet the remaining gap,” Lowcock said.
He said this year donors gave a record $17 billion to fund humanitarian operations and data showed that aid reached 70% of the people targeted.
While Lowcock noted the $35 billion needed for 2021 was a lot of money, he said it was a “very small” amount compared to what rich countries have spent protecting their citizens during the pandemic.
Key among the concerns for Lowcock is averting famines in countries including Yemen, Afghanistan, northeast Nigeria, South Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burkina Faso.
“There is a clear and present danger of really a large scale famine in Yemen now and the single biggest reason for that is because some very important countries who provided a lot of assistance for our relief operation in 2018 and 2019 have not done that in 2020 and those are the countries of the Gulf,” he said.  …as UN seeks urgent support   The humanitarian community in Nigeria has called for urgent support for vulnerable people in the north-eastern part of the country, as the number of people in need of life-saving aid has risen steeply.   Over 10.6 million people - out of a… August 15, 2020 In "News" The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) yesterday said it has commenced unconditional cash transfer support programme to over 9,600 vulnerable families In Kano State. The UNDP cash transfer support programme, according to the Country Director, Mr. Muhammad Yahya, was under the One UN COVID-19 Basket Fund.  … October 6, 2020 In "News" Recently, Nigeria joined the rest of the world in marking World Humanitarian Day, with a pledge to prioritise the protection of aid workers in the country. DEBORAH OCHENI reports         Humanitarian aid workers are essentially a group of people who work with voluntary organisations and international development… September 1, 2020 In "Inside Abuja"