Chaka Technologies Limited, a fintech company, has reassured investors on the safety of their investments following an interim order granted by the Investment and Securities Tribunal (ISL) to restrict the company and its promoters from advertising and offering for sale, shares, stock or other securities of NSE-listed companies. In a statement signed by Tosin Osibodu, Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chaka Technologies, in Lagos, the company explained that although no formal order from the Nigerian Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) had been received, it would like to reassure investors that it had conducted its operations in accordance with the law.
“We only learned about SEC’s position today (Monday) and while we await receiving the formal order from SEC  please note that your investments were placed by a duly licensed entity and remain safe through Citi Investments (using the Chaka platform), and will continue to be custodied by a SEC-regulated broker,” the statement said.
It added that, “since we began our journey in 2019, we have been transparent about our regulatory status, leveraging strategic partnerships with registered brokers in the U.S and in Nigeria, specifically Citi Investment Capital Ltd, which is regulated by the SEC. Our commitment to investor education, trust, and transparency remain a top priority.”
The statement said Chaka Technologies was fully compliant with the commission’s regulations as all local equities are offered through a locally licensed brokerage firm that is registered with the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) – entities that are regulated by Nigeria’s Securities and Exchanges Commission (SEC). The company said its legal and operations teams were currently working to accelerate a resolution. SEC had applied to the ISL alleging that the fintech company was engaged in investment activities, including providing a platform for the purchase of shares in foreign companies such as Google, Amazon and Alibaba outside the regulatory purview of the commission and without requisite registration, as stipulated by the Investment and Securities Act 2007. Subsequently, ISL granted interim orders to restrict the activities of the company.   With the recent pronouncement by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Nigeria has joined the league of countries taking measures to protect investors in virtual currencies through regulation. While the regulation is yet to take effect, the statement from SEC shows a shift in government stance on cryptocurrencies. SAMSON AKINTARO… September 24, 2020 In "Business" Leveraging technology will ensure a more efficient capital market in the country. Chris Ugwu writes With a weak market depth and developing market structure, it becomes apparent to explore ways by which the structure of the capital market can be revamped to position it for development   That is… July 29, 2020 In "Business" CHUKWU DAVID reports on the resolve by the Senate to work in collaboration with stakeholders in the Capital Market to resuscitate and strengthen the sector Since the Capital Market in Nigeria witnessed a major downturn in the last decade following the devastating global crash in the market in 2008, both… November 11, 2020 In "Politics"