Teachers, pupils and indigenes of Ohafia and Isiukwuato local government areas of Abia North, Abia State, will have a cause to smile following the intervention of their representative, who is the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, in the renovation of primary schools in their communities.  The schools – Ahaba Imenyi Community School and Uguafia Primary School – in Abia North now wear new looks as result of the reconstruction works facilitated by Kalu.  In less than a year in office, Kalu has embarked on the renovation of schools in the five local governments of his senatorial district; this is in addition to 19 road projects currently being constructed by Chief Whip with some already at their completion stage.  Prior to the infrastructural overhauling by the former governor of Abia State, the primary schools were in sorry state characterised by bushes and dilapidated structures with roofless and windowless classrooms.  The condition of the schools not only obstructed the learning process but also posed dangers to the staff and students.  However, with the renovation the schools now wear a new look as the entire dilapidated blocks of classrooms on the school premises have been completely reconstructed.  The classrooms, which had no roofs, have been replaced with brand new roofs, while the dilapidated ones have also been replaced with brand new roofs.  The windows and doors of the classroom blocks have been entirely replaced and the structures repainted. More so, other facilities upgraded in the school include toilets, classroom furniture and construction works on the premises.  The Orji Uzor Kalu phenomenon in Abia State and national politics is evidently bulging into an enigma. Igbeaku Orji reports on how this played out during the Senate Chief Whip’s recent visit to the state he once governed The recent working visit to Abia State by the Senate Chief Whip… December 9, 2020 In "Politics" The best thing that happened to Abia North Senatorial Zone was electing Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu to the Senate. No senator would have been able to accomplish what he has achieved in these few months despite the six months of incarceration. Thank God the Senate leadership did not listen to… January 14, 2021 In "Politics" … inspects roads, classroom projects Chief Whip of the Senate and Senator representing Abia North, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, yesterday took a retrospect on what transpired during the conduct of Aba North and South Federal constituency by-election, held March 27, saying the exercise was not without crucial lessons, which would… March 31, 2021 In "News"