 German champions Bayern Munich clung on to the Bundesliga’s top spot after holding closest rivals RB Leipzig to a thrilling 3-3 home draw, with Thomas Mueller scoring twice in a rip-roaring contest on Saturday.
The result left Bayern on 23 points from 10 games, two more than Leipzig and four ahead of third-placed Borussia Dortmund and fourth-placed Bayer Leverkusen, who have a game in hand, reports Reuters.
Christopher Nkunku fired Leipzig ahead in the 19th minute when he picked up a defence-splitting pass by Emil Forsberg and slotted the ball into an empty net after rounding Bayern’s advancing goalkeeper Manuel Neuer.
Bayern quickly turned the tide though, as 17-year-old Jamal Musiala, an England Under-21 international, levelled five minutes after coming on as a substitute for the injured Javier Martinez and Mueller struck shortly afterwards.
Germany-born attacking midfielder Musiala showed his vast potential as he beat keeper Peter Gulacsi with a sublime low shot from 20 metres before Mueller capped a flowing move with a clinical finish.
But Bayern’s joy was short-lived as Justin Kluivert, on loan at Leipzig from Serie A side AS Roma, equalised barely a minute later with his first goal for the club when he took advantage of some slack defending and drilled the ball past Neuer.
Leipzig forced another twist in the 48th minute as Forsberg found the back of the net with a thumping header from six metres after an inch-perfect cross from Angelino as Bayern’s defence was left exposed yet again.
But Mueller made sure Bayern stayed in the league’s driving seat when he powered a 75th-minute header past Gulacsi thanks to a fine cross from Kingsley Coman, with the France winger racking up three assists.
Leverkusen could move up to second and slash Bayern’s lead to one point when they visit bottom team Schalke on Sunday.  Bayern Munich maintained their two-point advantage at the top of the Bundesliga as Hansi Flick's side came from behind to beat Stuttgart. Lassana Coulibaly swept in from Silas Wamangituka's excellent low cross to put Stuttgart ahead on the counter-attack.   Kingsley Coman levelled for Bayern and Robert Lewandowski's powerful strike… November 29, 2020 In "Politics" *Polish forward has 10 goals in five Bundesliga games *Quagliarella, Sampdoria shock Atalanta Robert Lewandowski bagged a hat-trick as Bayern Munich thumped Eintracht Frankfurt 5-0. In a typically ruthless Bayern performance, the forward struck twice in the first half-hour and added a third after half-time, before the substitutes Leroy Sané and Jamal Musiala completed… October 25, 2020 In "Sports" R obert Lewandowski scored twice for Bayern Munich and Erling Braut Haaland netted a double for Borussia Dortmund as both sides recorded victories in the penultimate round of Bundesliga games. Bayern, who had secured the title in their previous match, won 3-1 at home against Freiburg. Dortmund guaranteed… June 21, 2020 In "Sports"