Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has re-affirmed that government alone cannot develop sports, insisting that only public, private partnership could boost sports development.  According to Dare: “In an egalitarian society, sports is developed alongside private investors. Look at countries like the United Kingdom, Jamaica, United States, South Africa and a host of others that have successfully done this.  “We need to develop sports deliberately with the help of public, private partnership with the government.  We believe in a holistic sports development which is a total departure from funding sporting competitions and waiting for the next Olympics, FIFA World Cup, Commonwealth Games or the All Africa Games.  “But as important as these events are, they do not equate to sports development.  But we came in clearly with the vision of developing a template that speaks to sports development and not just to infrastructures, but also the athletes as well as the entire gamut of sports.”  The minister expressed gratitude to Sir Kesington Adebutu and Alhaji Aliko Dangote for their immense contribution to sports development.  Rivers Commissioner for Sports, Boma Iyaye has said the state is ready to partner with companies, organisations and individuals in the promotion and development of sports in the state.   Iyaye stated this at the presentation of branded tracksuits to Rivers United by the chairman and proprietor of Ottasolo Football… November 18, 2020 In "Sports" The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has reassured that professionalism of Nigerian Football Development being promoted by the ongoing reforms of the nation’s football will make Nigerian Leagues better and put it at par with others around the world. The Minister said his desire is to see… September 10, 2020 In "Sports" In furtherance of its role of nurturing young tennis players from the grassroots, the Ministry of youth and sports Development is to partner with United States- based AJ Tennis Academy to establish a world- class tennis Academy in Abuja, Nigeria. Speaking during a visit to the Minister Mr. Sunday Dare… November 19, 2020 In "Sports"