Super Eagles striker, Kelechi Iheanacho, as the villian for Leicester City on Monday after losing a penalty in the team’s 1-1 draw against Crystal Palace in an English Premier League game.  The former Manchester City star was given his second start of the season and had a glorious opportunity to put the former EPL champions the lead in the 19th minute of the game from the penalty spot. The King Power Stadium outfit were awarded a penalty in the 19th minute of the encounter after James Tomkins brought down Luke Thomas in the box. Iheanacho was given the opportunity to take the penalty but the Nigeria international missed the glorious chance, failing to fire his effort past goalkeeper Vicente Guaita.  Leicester paid for the missed chance as Palace launched a powerful attack in the second half and broke the deadlock moments before the hour mark.
Ivory Coast international Wilfried Zaha scored the Eagles’ opener in the encounter with a fine finish.  The forward volleyed the ball into the back of the net past hapless goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel after receiving a timely assist from Andros Townsend.
With seven minutes to the end of the game, however, Harvey Barnes levelled proceedings for Leicester after he was set up by Jonny Evans.  Iheanacho played for 72 minutes in his eighth Premier League appearance this season before he was replaced by Demarai Gray.  The Super Eagles attacker made 22 touches on the ball and had a 63 percent successful pass rate in the encounter.  Iheanacho’s compatriot Wilfred Ndidi was not listed for the game.  Despite the draw, Leicester maintain the second spot on the Premier League table after gathering 29 points from 16 games.  Super Eagles striker, Kelechi Iheanacho, is set for Leicester City’s Goal of the Season award after being nominated alongside seven others by the club. According to a report on Leicester City’s twitter handle on Wednesday, Iheanacho will be up against the club’s highest goal scorer, Jamie Vardy and others like… July 23, 2020 In "Sports" *10-man Villa down Palace; Fulham, Saints draw   A rejuvenated Arsenal recorded an important victory over Chelsea to end their seven-game run without a win in the Premier League and ease the pressure on boss Mikel Arteta. Two first-half goals set the platform for the Gunners' first top-flight win since… December 26, 2020 In "Sports" Wins for Everton, Chelsea   Leeds' record signing Rodrigo took advantage of an Ederson error to earn Leeds a draw and prompt more questions for struggling Manchester City. City dominated initially, with Kevin de Bruyne's free-kick striking the post before Raheem Sterling hit the opener. Leeds came back into it… October 3, 2020 In "Sports"