The Federal Government has ordered civil servants from grade level 12 and below to stay at home for five weeks. Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HOCSF), Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, made this known yesterday in a circular in Abuja. Esan said the directive followed the reported cases of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The circular reads in part: “Following Mr. President’s approval of recommendations of the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19, in the light of the second wave of the infection in Nigeria, officers on grade level 12 and below are hereby directed to stay at home for a period of five weeks, effective from Wednesday, December 23 and await further directive.” According to her, the decision has become necessary to streamline the number of officers who come to work daily. She said that the affected officers are expected to perform their duties from home, while officers on grade level 13 and above are to adhere to preventive measures. “The measures include maintenance of physical distancing, regular washing and/or sanitising of hands and wearing of face masks and reducing the number of visitors. “In line with the prescription of the PTF, virtual meetings are encouraged with the view to minimising physical contact. “In addition, Permanent Secretaries and Chief Executive Officers are expected to sustain the provision and use of necessary amenities in compliance with the existing guidelines on prevention and the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “Security operatives manning the gates of offices should be directed to demand for the identity card of staff coming to the office to ensure that they are on grade level 13 and above before granting them access to the premises,” she advised. Esan had also instructed the permanent secretaries and the chief executive officers to bring the contents of the circular to the attention of all concerned officers and ensure compliance.   The Head of Service of the Federation (HoSF), Folasade Yemi-Esan, has decried the observed noncompliance with the protocols outlined by the government for the control of the dreaded Coronavirus (COVID- 19) by civil servants in the country. She said that senior government officials allowed to resume work are not adhering… July 7, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has relaxed restrictions on workers that can resume work by  directing civil servants on Grade Levels 12 and 13 as well as those on essential duties to resume fully.     The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HoSCF), Dr. Folashade Yemi-Esan, gave the directive… August 11, 2020 In "News" Following the gradual easing of the lockdown earlier imposed to curtail the spread of  coronavirus,  the Federal Government has been grappling with the challenges of managing governments business in a safe environment. CALEB ONWE reports     W hen the lockdown was relaxed and certain categories of workers asked to… June 30, 2020 In "News"