 Clement James, Calabar Cross River State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abdulkadir Jimoh is reportedly dead.
Multiple sources said Jimoh died early this morning (Friday) from COVID-19 related complications.
The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH), Prof. Ikpeme Ikpeme while speaking to journalists said the late Commissioner of Police was brought into the hospital early Friday “practically dead.”
He said the remains of the Police boss will remain in the hospital until COVID-19 protocols are observed before evacuation.
He advised all the Policemen who were with him to come for COVID-19 tests in the hospital or isolate themselves for a period of 14 days.
Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Irene Ugbo has refused to answer her calls when journalists called her for confirmation.
Jimoh took over from Mr. Nkeruwem Akpan as Commissioner of Police in the state in July and was looking sickly on December 3 when the state Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade handed over security vehicles code-named “Operation Akpakwu” to the various security outfits.  … Ayade bemoans his death, condoles with family Cross River State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abdulkadir Jimoh, has been reported dead. Multiple sources said Jimoh died yesterday, from Coronavirus related complications. The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH), Prof. Ikpeme Ikpeme, while speaking to… December 19, 2020 In "News" Police have uncovered a baby factory at Obot Udonna village in the Akamkpa Local Government Area of Cross River State. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abulkadir Jimoh, said in a statement yesterday that a lady, Imaobong Asuquo from Obot Udonna village, was arrested after intelligence report showed that she… October 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Cross River State Police Command has uncovered a baby factory in Obot Udonna village, Akamkpa Local Government Area of the state. A release from the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abulkadir Jimoh on Wednesday, noted that one Imaobong Asuquo from Obot Udonna village was arrested after intelligence report showed that… October 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"