 The former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team, Mr Abdulrasheed Maina on Thursday collapsed in court.
The Federal Government is prosecuting Mister Maina on a 12-count charge of fraud and money laundering before a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja.
The former pension boss collapsed at exactly when his counsel, Anayo Adibe was addressing the court on his no-case submission before Justice Okon Abang handling his trial.
Before the collapse of the former pension boss, his counsel was praying the court for an adjournment to enable him to get records of the proceedings of the court to enable him to prepare for the no-case submission he intends to file on behalf of his client.
The court had to rise abruptly to enable officials of the Correctional Service and relations of the former pension boss to attend to him.
The matter was on Wednesday adjourned till today, December 10, 2020, for the defendant to argue his no-case submission and for the prosecution to respond to the same orally.  Abdulrasheed Maina, former Chairman, Pension Reformed Task Team (PRTT), on Wednesday, told the Federal High Court, Abuja, that he had no case to answer in the allegations levied against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Maina, who told Justice Okon Abang shortly after the EFCC, through… December 9, 2020 In "News" The trial of former Pension Reform Task Team Chairman, Abdulrasheed Maina resumed Tuesday at the Federal High Court in Abuja before Justice Okon Abang. The court had last week ordered the remand of Maina at the Kuje Correctional Centre after his appearance there following his extradition from the Niger… December 8, 2020 In "News" A Federal High Court in Abuja, on Tuesday, rejected another request by Abdulrasheed Maina, former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Team (PRTT), for an adjournment to prepare for his defence. Justice Okon Abang, in a ruling, said though the decision to grant the application was at the… December 8, 2020 In "News"