League Management Company chairman, Shehu Dikko, has said that the body will meet with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for clarification on the new guidelines and how it might affect the start of the 2020/21 league season.  The sports minister, Sunday Dare, and the LMC had earlier confirmed December 27 as the resumption date for the Nigeria Professional Football League, which had been suspended since March, due to the outbreak of COVID-19.  But with the increase in new cases of the virus due to a global second wave, the PTF on Monday outlined new COVID-19 protocols.  PTF chairman Boss Mustapha said the body issued the directive to, “Restrict all informal and formal festivity events including weddings, conferences, congresses, office parties, concerts, seminars, sporting activities, end of year events shall be restricted to not more than  50 persons.  “Where more than 50 persons are attending any such events, the gathering should be held outdoors only.” In a chat with journalists, Dikko said, “I can’t speak on that (protocols) now as we have to validate and clear the correct intention.     The Federal Government has ordered the closure of bars, nightclubs, and restaurants across the country, just as it reduced the number of guests at weddings, conferences, among others, to 50. These were part of the new measures President Muhammadu Buhari has approved to curtail the further spread of COVID-19… December 21, 2020 In "Top Stories" President Muhammadu Buhari has warned that the country is currently in a perilous situation due to the second wave of the Coronavirus (COVID- 19) ravaging the country. The President, who extended the mandate of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 chaired by the Secretary to the Government of the… December 23, 2020 In "News" The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 pandemic (PTF) has accused religious organizations of holding large gatherings capable of spreading the virus. The PTF chairman and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, in his comments at a briefing yesterday called on state governments to enforce COVID-19 protocols… December 11, 2020 In "News"