Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and his wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, had a special moment with the (PLWDs). It was at an interactive session jointly organised by the Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Ministry of Information and Strategy and Office of Disabilities. The event, held at the State House, Marina, hosted about 364 PLWDs. It offered them an opportunity to personally intimate the governor with various challenges facing their clusters. Rendition of songs of praise by the choir of Pacelli School for the Blind and Partially Sighted Children relaxed the atmosphere for a productive discussion, which the clusters of PLWDs had with the governor. Representatives of each cluster spoke their minds on challenges limiting their members to cope with dayto- day activities, top among which are employment and inclusive education. The PWDs offered suggestions on how the government could make life better for them. An Assistant Director of Programmes at the Lagos State-owned Traffic Radio, Victor Oteri, who represented cluster of visually impaired persons, hailed Sanwo-Olu for creating time for the PLWDs amid challenges facing the state, noting that the governor had devoted time and resources to the weakest people in the society. Oteri called for an increment in the employment ratio dedicated to PLWDs in public and corporate organisations in the state from two to five per cent, while urging the government to equip Lagos State Office for Disability Affairs (LASODA) to fully enforce the Special People Law of 2011, which mandated all public and private business establishments in Lagos to absorb physicallychallenged persons. Hon. Israel Akiode, who represented the dwarf cluster and also represented the PWDs in Lagos chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), made a case for an appointment of a Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on PLWDs, which would serve as a link between the clusters and the governor. Akiode also clamoured for the increase in employment slots reserved for the physically challenged in public service to five per cent. The Chairman of Association for the Blind, Mr. Babatunde Mohammed, praised Lagos State for creating education access for the cluster, but said the current integrated education model had segregated the visually impaired persons. Mohammed urged the governor to allow enrolment of the blind for in clusive education to stop segregation. Women leader, Lagos State Association of the Deaf, Yemisi Alabi, drew the governor’s attention to the discrimination against PLWDs in the healthcare sector, noting that LASODA certificates issued by the government were not being honoured in the General Hospitals. The situation, she said, was limiting access to healthcare for residents living with disabilities. Also, Oyedele Wakil, who represented PLWDs in Alimosho, said local government areas had not respected the Special People Law of Lagos of 2011, urging Sanwo-Olu to prevail on the council chairmen in the state on the issue. Olajumoke Otitoloju of Iyaniwura Foundation for Children Living with Disabilities drew attention to the dearth of teachers and caregivers for children living with mental disabilities. Responding to the issues raised, Sanwo-Olu instantly approved some of the demands of the PWDs and promised to implement others in the course of time. He reiterated his administration’s readiness to empower the PLWDs and give them a sense of belonging in the ‘Greater Lagos’ project. The governor said the demands of the PLWDs came at a better time when the state was about to access the N500 million Disability Fund appropriated in the 2021 Budget passed on Monday by the House of Assembly. Sanwo-Olu said the government would be meeting with each cluster of PLWDs on how to maximise the funds for the benefit of their members. He said: “This Christmas period presents a better time for us to host this special interactive session and felicitate with you. I deliberately asked for the event to be done at the State House, Marina, so that I can share good moments with you in the spirit of the season. We called for this engagement to hear from you all the challenges you face. “After listening to your representatives, we now have a better understanding of which intervention we need to make and where we need to improve our relationship with you. We have taken all the points raised. The N500 million Disability Fund in the 2021 Budget will be accessed next year and we will agree with all clusters on better ways to utilise the funds.” The governor said the government would be working to ensure free quality healthcare services for the physically-challenged persons in primary and insecondary health institutions in the state, while also giving directive for free Coronavirus (COVID-19) test for PWDs in registered clusters. Granting the request of the PWDs, Sanwo-Olu approved the creation of the Office of Senior Special Assistant on PLWD Affairs, which would be the link between his administration and people living with disabilities. In January, the governor said an appointment would be made into the office, which would be domiciled at the Ministry of Youth and Social Development. In the spirit of Yuletide, Sanwo-Olu and his wife donated 50 wheelchairs, 170 walking sticks, 75 white canes and 69 crutches to the clusters to assist the PLWDs in mobility. About 364 persons living with disabilities benefited from the gesture.  Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, recently visited Badagry, during which he toured some facilities and project sites in the area, including the state-owned Avia Organic Farm, which he promised to resuscitate in order to boost food production     It was a heroic welcome for the governor of Lagos… August 18, 2020 In "Politics" TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the one-year anniversary of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration in Lagos State On May 29, 2019, there were exchanges of batons as well as continuity in some states as 29 governors took oath of office. Among the new governors who took oath of office last year… June 19, 2020 In "Politics" TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on achievements of Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who clocked 55 yesterday Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu clocked 55 yesterday. At 55, Sanwo-Olu, not only stands tall among his contemporaries, but remains a model to his generation. Born on June 25, 1965 in Lagos State,… June 26, 2020 In "Politics"