…says judges’ spouses, religious leaders, others serve as couriers The last may not have been heard of the alleged corrupt practices in the electoral justice system, as indications have emerged that a whopping N5.7 billion may have been paid by lawyers to secure favourable judgements for their clients. In order to avoid direct contacts with some judges handling electoral petition matters, the said complicit lawyers offered the huge bribe sums through judicial officers’ spouses, religious and traditional rulers, among other influential individuals in the society. The startling revelation was a product of investigative research by the Anti- Corruption Academy, an intellectual institute of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). The report by the Academy is, no doubt, the latest domestic index on sectoral corruption in the country. According to PRNigeria, the latest report revealed that an estimated 9.9% of lawyers reported the experiences of offering different bribe sumsin connection with cases of interest, especially electoral matters. “However, the total amount reported by this relatively small group of lawyers amounted to N5,733,980.000,” it reported. It further claimed that, out of 124 judges interviewed during the survey, 11 responded that they had, indeed, been offered bribes to influence the final outcomes of cases that were pending before them. The report stated that inducements offered to the affected judicial officers were often done through spouses, parents, religious or traditional leaders, former or serving colleagues. It said the resort to these channels as intermediaries was to insulate themselves from the backlash of their corrupt practice. “While the judge may refuse the bribe without hesitation, there may be more than a little reluctance to report the incident because of the role played by the intermediary,” the report added. It noted that “the magnitude of assets and volume of money involved in grand corruption are such that just a few incidents can have disastrous consequences for the whole sector.”  When a professional colleague suggested that I beam my searchlight on the Nigerian judiciary to witness some of the reforms he said were taking place there, my retort was like biblical Nathaniel’s. John 1: 45: “Philip found Nathaniel, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in… November 25, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Contrary to the claim of the Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN) that the judiciary has failed the country in its anti-graft war, lawyers at the weekend rose in defence of judiciary, describing the third arm of government as second to none in the fight… July 20, 2020 In "Law" Lawyers: No to divided NBA   AKEEM NAFIU writes that agitation by some sections of the Bar for the formation of a splinter NBA known as 'New Bar Initiative' following controversies trailing the emergence of Mr. Olumide Akpata as the 30th NBA President in the recently held national elections has… August 17, 2020 In "Law"