*Police: ‘It’s not true, only 3 tried to escape’ Clement James, Calabar  No fewer than 19 armed robbery suspects have allegedly escaped from the custody of the Cross River Police Command Headquarters at Diamond Hill, Calabar.
New Telegraph learnt from a Police source, who pleaded anonymity for obvious reasons, that the suspects escaped on Sunday night after they used a hacksaw to cut the lock to the cell where they were detained.
The source said: “As I speak to you, the station guard and some other officers are being detained. This could not have happened with the SARS. Our lives are in danger.”
He said none of the escapees had been re-arrested as at Monday morning, noting, however, that the authorities have sent a crack team of Policemen after them.
But when contacted, the Public Relations Officer  (PPRO) of the command, DSP Irene Ugbo said: “The information is not true. Only three robbers attempted to escape but were arrested and returned to their cell.”
Later, DSP Ugbo added that two were gunned down while the third one was re-arrested.   Clement James Calabar At least 19 armed robbery suspects have allegedly escaped from custody at the Cross River Police Command Headquarters at Diamond Hill, Calabar.   A police source said the suspects escaped on Sunday night after they used hacksaw to cut the key to the cell where they were… December 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...policemen arrested, to face orderly room trial in Edo Hundreds of suspected kidnappers and armed robbers have escaped from the cell of the Edo State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID). Already, all the policemen on duty within the SCIID and others on security duty have been arrested and detained… January 4, 2021 In "News" The second wave of COVID-19 has been adjudged by experts to be deadlier, but shockingly the police in Lagos State are flouting the Coronavirus protocols, to endanger their lives and those of the detainees. In this report, JULIANA FRANCIS looks at how police and the Nigeria Correctional Service breach COVID-19… March 11, 2021 In "Insight"