Super Eagles skipper, Ahmed Musa, has shunned a multimillion deal from Turkish giant, Galatasaray, as he moves back to former club, CSKA Moscow.
Musa who left Saudi Arabia side Al Nassr in a mutual consent is available on free transfer as a lot of European clubs especially from Turkey showing interests.
His desire was to return to England and despite offers from teams from the Queens conutry he decided against it as most offers are short term deals with option to extend after performance.
Sheffield Wednesday a Chamionship side was one of the teams that were so desirous of the Super Eagles captain but he turned them down.
Galatasaray offered him big money but the Nigerian has decided on a third spell with the Russian side, CSKA Moscow and will have his medicals next week after agreeing to a two year deal plus an option of another year deal at the club where he made his mark.
Barring any last minute change, Musa will be having his medics and unveiling next week as he bids to relaunce his career in Europe after two years in Asia.  Super Eagles skipper, Ahmed Musa, is set to announce his new club after parting ways with Saudi Arabia club Al-Nassr by mutual consent. The 28-year-old winger is now a free agent and he is expected to make announcement of his next club in coming days. There are a lot of… October 28, 2020 In "Sports" Al-Nassr winger and Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa has announced the birth of a baby boy to his family. The forward remarried in May 2017, to Juliet Ejue, after divorcing his ex-wife Jamila over "irreconcilable differences" This is the second child between Musa and Juliet after welcoming their first in… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" Uzoho, Ezenwa, others on standby NFF confirms Benin City for tie Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has recalled Napoli striker Victor Osimhen, Kaiser Chiefs goal keeper Daniel Akpeyi and midfielder Oghenekaro Etebo to his 24-man team for the 2022 African Cup of Nations Cup qualifying matches against the Leone Stars… October 30, 2020 In "Sports"