 A member of the House of Representatives from Benue State, Herman Hembe, has dumped the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and decamped to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
Hembe made his decision known in a letter read on the floor of the house by the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, during plenary on Tuesday.
He represents Vandeikiya/Konshisha federal constituency of Benue State.
Kicking against his defection, the Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, urged the Deputy Speaker to declare Mr Hembe’s seat vacant, citing the relevant section of the constitution, a request that was declined.
Hembe’s defection is not the first in the ninth National Assembly, as the PDP had earlier lost two members to the APC.
Hembe is a ranking member of the House of Representatives whose tenure in the last Assembly was cut short by the Supreme Court halfway into his tenure.
A controversial figure, Hembe became enmeshed in a corruption scandal in 2012 after he was accused of demanding a N30 million bribe from the Securities and Exchange Commission — a body the capital market committee he headed supervised.
Then Director General of the Commission, Arunma Oteh, said Hembe and other members of the committee also illegally took money from the commission purportedly for a conference in Dominican Republic, but failed to attend the event.
Amidst the uproar that followed, Hembe was suspended as the committee Chairman by Speaker, Aminu Tambuwal.  CEPHAS IORHEMEN reports on the recent defection of some chieftains of major political parties in Benue State, particularly the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue State seems to be walking a tip rope ahead of the 2023… August 27, 2020 In "Politics" APC: Mass defection awaits opposition party Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has dumped the opposition People's Democratic Party (PDP) and rejoined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Dogora, who was the Speaker of the 8th House of Representatives on the platform of APC, in 2018 defected… July 25, 2020 In "News" IGBEAKU ORJI reports on the gale of defections to the Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by chieftains of major political parties in the state       T he recent surge in the number of politicians seeking space and relevance in the All Progressive Congress (APC)… July 1, 2020 In "Politics"