Three suspects have been arrested for allegedly stealing a tricycle and a car battery after burning Ilogbo Police Post during the recent ‘EndSARS’ protest in Lagos State. The suspects – Chibuike Madi (35), Maruf Banuso (35) and Timothy Dike (20) – were later arrested in different locations.  The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, said it would be recalled that during the EndSARS protests, Ilogbo Police Post, Ilemba-Hausa, Ajangbadi, was set ablaze and exhibits were also burnt. Odumosu said some other valuables were also stolen by some hoodlums who hijacked the protests.. He said: “Immediately I received the information about the act, some police detectives were deployed to the area to fish out the perpetrators of the crime. Fortunately, the exercise paid off and the suspects were arrested.  “They were arrested four days after. One unregistered tricycle and motor battery stolen from the burnt police post were recovered from the suspects. They confessed to having participated in the burning of the  police post.” One of the suspects, Madi, said he did not know anything about the tricycle.  The suspect said he was surprised when policemen came to arrest him at his shop where he was selling motorcycle spare parts. He said: “It was true, I participated in the EndSARS protests but I didn’t know anything about the tricycle. I was about to take my breakfast when I was arrested.  I regret joining in the protest.” Another suspect, Banuso, also denied knowing anything about the tricycle. He also claimed he took part in the protest, but never engaged in robbery and burning of the police post.  While Dike, on his own, said he was sleeping when Madi brought policemen to his house to arrest him. He said: “Madi said that I am one of them. I don’t know anything about what the police are talking about. I am innocent of the crime.”  suspects would be charged to court soon  Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, yesterday revealed how his men arrested at least 19 people for burning Ebute- Ero and Elemoro police stations in parts of the Lagos metropolis.   The commissioner said 18 people were arrested in connection with the burning of Ebute-Ero Police Station, while one… December 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Six policemen murdered, 38 injured 30 stations, posts razed,18 vandalised Four civilians killed 520 suspects held for killing,looting, arson 71 police vehicles, 67 BRT, 71 others burnt, damaged At least, six policemen were killed while 38 others were wounded in Lagos State during the #EndSARS protests. The state Commissioner of… October 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Security agents have arrested 924 suspects for allegedly looting private and government properties in 10 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The suspects were apprehended in the last couple of days for the ongoing looting and destruction across several states of the federation as fallout of the protests seeking… October 27, 2020 In "News"