The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has said football is nothing without content, insisting that Nigerian Football League cannot thrive without Contents. Dare made this assertion during an inspection tour of the Surulere National Stadium , Lagos currently undergoing rehabilitation.  According to the Minister, “our football league must be ‘Content Stupid’ to develop because football is content stupid. We watch the English Premier League, we are transported to Wembley through the power of television. It is clear that our domestic league cannot develop without content.  “We have agreed with the NFF and LMC that there must be content in our League. We may not be able to cover or show five or six matches, but the content must be there. “I have received an assurance from the LMC that there would be content.  The content might be gradual, but there must be some clear markers laid down, especially now that stadiums will be empty due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Fans would be able to watch their teams play on television.”  The elite domestic football league in Nigeria was officially transformed from amateur to professional cadre in 1990. Sadly, the transition exercise was rushed such that the clubs failed to meet the conditions set by the regulatory body for their participation in the league. Till date, many of the clubs are… September 12, 2020 In "Sports" It is no news that the effect of coronavirus outbreak across the world denied lovers of football the opportunity of watching actions in the round leather game for about three months. It was a tough period for all stakeholders of the game, especially the fans. We are aware of the… June 24, 2020 In "Editorial" It’s a new dawn for clubs playing in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) as the League Management Company (LMC) has announced a N75 million prize for the winner of the 2020/2021 league season scheduled to kick-off on December 27.   While confirming the new date announced by the Minister… December 20, 2020 In "Sports"