 The management of Plateau United Football Club of Jos has placed the entire team on half salary following their 0-2 loss to Kwara United of Ilorin on Match Day 1 of the Nigeria Professional Football League.
The Media Officer of the Club, Albert Dakup, in a statement in Lagos, disclosed that the club took the hard stance after the match at the new Jos Stadium on Sunday, December 27.
The statement said the club’s General Manager, Pius Henwan, handed down the directive while addressing players and coaches.
He was quoted as telling them that they had no excuse whatsoever not to beat their opponents, describing their performance as unacceptable.
“You must recoup the three points in your next away match and until that is achieved, you will remain on half salary,” the statement quoted Henwan as saying.
Henwan lamented that despite the state government’s huge investments in the team, the players were not reciprocating the gesture, warning that anybody who was not ready to work for the collective aspirations of the team would be shown the way out.
“Plateau United is a big brand in Nigerian football and any of you who is not ready to defend the colours of the club should just bow out.
“Some of you are injured or sick since we returned from Tanzania but it seems others decided to exclude themselves from training under the guise of been injured. Such indiscipline will not be condoned here and anyone found wanting will be decisively dealt with,” the GM warned.
He directed the technical crew and other backroom staff to close ranks and work as a team to change the fortunes of the club, while expressing confidence in the ability of the head coach, Abdu Maikaba, to deliver.
The head coach, who had earlier described the criticisms against him as unfair and baseless, was quoted by the statement as saying that he was ready to step aside if found to be the problem of the team.
“I have been working hard to give all the players the chance to compete for places in the team. If some players will accuse me of being biased, then the identity of such players be revealed because they are the ones thwarting my efforts to change the fortunes of the team,” Makaiba said.  The Plateau Government has pledged support for Plateau United FC of Jos, ahead of the CAF Champions League and the 2020/2021 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season. Mr Victor Lapang, the Commissioner for Youths and Sports in the state, made the pledge while interacting with players and officials of the… November 10, 2020 In "Sports" Ahead of the of the CAF Champions League match between Plateau United and Simba SC football club of Tanzania, scheduled to hold at the Zaria Road Stadium in Jos, Governor Simon Lalong on Wednesday visited the team during their training session in Jos. Lalong while addressing the players and technical… November 25, 2020 In "Sports" President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick on Thursday praised the efforts of the Federation’s Adhoc Committee on Safety and Security, set up to unravel the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate death of Nasarawa United player, Chineme Martins during an NPFL game in Lafia on March 8,… July 23, 2020 In "Sports"