Osun State Food and Relief Committee yesterday revealed that it was now ready to receive delivery of 40, 332 units of 10kg bags of rice for onward distribution to residents of the state.  This is even as it expressed readiness to commence distribution of CACOVID rice on delivery.  However, the Committee has debunked insinuations making the rounds that the state government deliberately hoarded the food and relief materials donated by CACOVID, meant to cushion the effects of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic.  The Committee noted that contrary to speculations, it had not received any rice component just as it displayed a letter from CACOVID which had absolved the state of any wrongdoing in the looted palliatives before journalists in a briefing in Osogbo yesterday.  The Secretary to the Committee, Alhaji Adebayo Jimoh, disclosed this during a joint press briefing held at the Press Centre, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Osun State Council, Osogbo. Jimoh, who denounced the insinuations that the state deliberately hoarded the looted palliatives, said the letter from CACOVID was enough vindication to validate the state government and the Committee’s earlier positions that they never hoarded the palliatives before they were looted.  He said: “As a committee, we have no mandate to distribute the looted palliatives as at the time they were looted because we were awaiting the directive of the donors through the CACOVID committee   The private sectorled Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), yesterday, flagged off a nationwide distribution of multi-billion naira food palliatives and other relief items to mitigate the adverse effects of the novel coronavirus crisis on vulnerable Nigerians. The food relief materials for which the private sector operators are spending about N23 billion… August 7, 2020 In "News" Members of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) in Osun State on Tuesday lauded Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s administration for taking their welfare and wellbeing with utmost priority. The retirees in the state also showered encomiums on the governor for counting them worthy of benefiting from the rice component donated to… December 31, 2020 In "News" This is the concluding part of the story, behind the ‘looted’ palliatives, as chronicled by ISIOMA MADIKE, who tracked the looting of palliatives in both Lagos and Oyo states for weeks Agunbiade reacts to allegation Agunbiade, in his reported response to the looting of the palliatives in his home, had… December 19, 2020 In "News"