Ekiti State Government has disclosed its plan to engage more architects in partnership with the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON) with a view to ensuring its Urban Renewal Projects meet international standard.  Governor Kayode Fayemi stated this when he received the leadership of ARCON, led by its National President, Arc (Sir) Dipo Ajayi and council members on a courtesy visit in Ado-Ekiti. In a statement yesterday by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Yinka Oyebode, Dr Fayemi said the state would require the technical expertise of the umbrella body of architects in its bid to build a world class agriculture processing zone and the knowledge zone (smart city), two major projects designed to drive industrialisation in Ekiti State.  The governor who hinted on plans by his administration to deploy Geography Information Science (GIS) technology for accurate enumeration of properties in the state, said the state was also reviving its farm settlements in order to boost agriculture business, food security and industrial development of the state. He said: “We are definitely going to increase the use of architects in our urban renewal project. We need architects and experts in the design of the Agriculture Processing Zone and the Knowledge Zone (our smart city) projects.”  “We need the knowledge, expertise and sup- port  of architects and ARCON leadership in making these projects world class. Earlier in his presentation, ARCON President, Arc Ajayi who lauded the development strides of the Fayemi-led administration, urged the Governor to ensure the state take advantage of the services of certified architects and professional support of the umbrella body.  ARCON, according to Ajayi, would make its expertise available to the state government in a partnership that would accelerate infrastructure development in the state  Chairman, Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA), Ekiti State Chapter, Architect Wale Ajayi, has described Governor Kayode Fayemi’s urban renewal policy as a model that would expand the economic landscape of the state in the future. Ajayi, who is a Senior Special Assistant to Ekiti State Governor on Public Buildings and… November 19, 2020 In "News" Fayemi’s impactful  governance in Ekiti     ADEWUMI ADEMIJU reports on some of the steps taken so far by Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, towards implementing his policy agenda in order to achieve impactful governance in the state       Two years ago, Dr. Kayode Fayemi… October 21, 2020 In "Politics" Cutting Edge Architects must be innovative and creative to deliver designs to meet need of the moment   Architects Registration of Council of Nigeria (ARCON) has called on the Federal Government to partner with the council for urbanism and urban regeneration to be achieved in Nigeria.   According to the… August 25, 2020 In "Business"