  A 45-year-old nurse in California tested positive for COVID-19 more than a week after receiving Pfizer Inc’s coronavirus vaccine, an ABC News affiliate reported on Tuesday.
Matthew W., a nurse at two different local hospitals, said in a Facebook post on December 18 that he had received the Pfizer vaccine, telling the ABC News affiliate that his arm was sore for a day but that he had suffered no other side-effects, reports Reuters.
Six days later on Christmas Eve, he became sick after working a shift in the COVID-19 unit, the report added. He got the chills and later came down with muscle aches and fatigue.
He went to a drive-up hospital testing site and tested positive for COVID-19 the day after Christmas, the report said.
Christian Ramers, an infectious disease specialist with Family Health Centers of San Diego, told the ABC News affiliate that this scenario was not unexpected.
“We know from the vaccine clinical trials that it’s going to take about 10 to 14 days for you to start to develop protection from the vaccine,” Ramers said.
“That first dose we think gives you somewhere around 50%, and you need that second dose to get up to 95%,” Ramers added.  Globally, coronavirus has continued its spread with more than 58 million confirmed cases in 190 countries and almost 1.4 million deaths. The breakthroughs in recent vaccine trials have, however, raised hopes for an end to the pandemic, APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports With many advanced economic countries embarking on second lockdown occasioned… November 26, 2020 In "Health" Global efforts geared towards finding a cure for the dreaded Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic produced a major breakthrough yesterday as pharmaceutical giant, Pfizer Incorporated and its partner, BioNTech, unveiled their mRNA-based vaccine candidate, BNT162b2, against SARS-CoV-2. The vaccine has demonstrated 90 per cent efficacy against COVID-19 in candidates… November 10, 2020 In "News" US President-elect Joe Biden will be vaccinated against COVID-19 this week, as the country's second approved jab is moved from warehouses to healthcare facilities. Biden will receive the vaccine on Monday, days after Vice President Mike Pence, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, reports Sky… December 21, 2020 In "News"