President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to address the House of Representatives next week on the state of the nation’s security following his invitation by the lower chamber. The House had, on Tuesday at plenary, invited Buhari to brief it on security situation in the country when it adopted a motion on: “Urgent need to condemn and investigate the insane killing of unarmed farmers in Jere Local Government Area of Borno State.” Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, who led the House leadership to a meeting with Buhari on Wednesday, told journalists that the President has agreed to brief the Green Chamber. Addressing journalists yesterday, the Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon. Benjamin Kalu (APC, Abia) said next Thursday is the expected date. Kalu said: “So security is topmost on his agenda at the moment and that’s why in the course of next week since we just finished today, I’m sure he will be able to adjust his programmes. I know Tuesday may not be feasible because we have NEC meeting. So we are looking at Thursday or upper Tuesday, the date is not yet definite. “As the speaker said yesterday, it will be out of place since we were not summoning. When you summon, you give date and time, but this is a back channel diplomacy, legislative diplomacy. We are not compelling, we are inviting. And when you invite, you rub minds to find out the availability of the person you’re inviting. “That was what the leadership did yesterday; they engaged with Mr. President and instead of mandating him to appear on a particular day, they rubbed minds on when it will be convenient for him to appear and he accepted.
“We have an estimate of when we think it’s going to be. In every matter of urgent public importance, time is of the essence and based on that and in the wisdom of the President, he’s not delaying but prioritizing on it.” Responding to questions on the constant calls for the sacking of Service Chiefs, he said: “The Service Chiefs will be one of the issues the House will discuss with the President. “We are looking for solutions. It’s not about the visit of the President, it’s about solution seeking mechanism we are looking for strategies that will help us find solutions. The visit of the President happens to be one of them.”   Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon. Benjamin Kalu (APC, Abia) has said declaring a state of emergency on security was more important than inviting President Muhammadu Buhari to brief the parliament on the state of insecurity. Recall that the House had on Tuesday… December 2, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari appears to know something Nigerians do not know about his service chiefs. Despite the sustained pressure from Nigerians on the president to relieve the Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Naval Staff and the Chief of Air Staff of their appointments following the… July 28, 2020 In "Editorial" President Muhammadu Buhari appears to know something Nigerians do not know about his service chiefs. Despite the sustained pressure from Nigerians on the president to relieve the Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Naval Staff and the Chief of Air Staff of their appointments following the… August 13, 2020 In "Editorial"