 Residents were ordered to evacuate parts of Orange County in Southern California early on Thursday morning as a wildfire that ignited overnight grew to nearly 4,000 acres, driven by strong winds.
The so-called Bond Fire erupted about 40 miles (60 kilometers) southeast of Los Angeles in Silverado Canyon in the Santa Ana Mountains on Wednesday night, the Orange County Fire Authority said as it issued a string of mandatory and voluntary evacuation edicts, reports Reuters.
It began as a house fire on Silverado Canyon’s Bond Road that was spread by strong winds into nearby dry vegetation, Captain Paul Holaday, a spokesman for the authority, told reporters on Thursday.
The authority urged people to shelter in hotels or with friends or family as there were no congregant shelters being arranged because of the novel coronavirus pandemic.
About 500 firefighters were working on the Bond Fire on Thursday morning, the authority said, none of which had been contained so far.
Since the start of the year, wildfires have scorched more than 6,500 square miles (17,000 square km) of California land according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.
The state has grappled with fires of record-breaking intensity and size in recent years, exacerbated by climate change. The yearly land area burned by severe wildfires in the western United States has grown eight times larger in less than four decades, the U.S. Forest Service Rocky Mountain Research Station said in research published last month.  More than half a million people in the US state of Oregon are fleeing deadly wildfires that are raging across the Pacific Northwest, authorities say. Fanned by unusually hot, dry winds, dozens of infernos are sweeping the state, and at least one is being treated as suspected arson, BBC… September 11, 2020 In "News" Several people have been killed in wildfires in the US, where tens of thousands have been told to flee their homes as firefighters battle dozens of major blazes across large parts of California and its neighbouring state of Oregon. There, its governor, Kate Brown, has said hundreds of homes… September 10, 2020 In "News" California firefighters made progress on Wednesday containing some of the largest wildfires in state history, as Governor Gavin Newsom said he expected a big jump in the number of homes destroyed and a rise in deaths in a disaster tied to climate change. Cooler temperatures for the second straight… August 27, 2020 In "News"