 Forty-eight NBA players tested positive for COVID-19, the league said on Wednesday, as players returned to their team’s home markets for the start of the 2020-21 season on December 22.
The NBA said it tested 546 players as part of its “initial return-to-market testing phase,” which kicked off between November 24 and 30. Anyone who tested positive was placed in isolation until cleared under league rules, reports Reuters.
The league had few issues keeping its “bubble” environment at Walt Disney World free of the novel coronavirus as it carried out the end of their delayed season earlier this year, but now faces many of the same challenges other North American leagues have playing in the COVID-19 era.
With the exception of the Toronto Raptors, teams will play in their home markets this season, with individual player workouts starting this week and group workouts beginning Sunday.
The Raptors, the only Canadian team in the league, will start their season in Tampa, Florida, due to tight international travel restrictions, as COVID-19 cases soar in the United States, where hospitalizations hit a record for a fourth consecutive day on Tuesday.
The NFL, which is currently playing, and MLB, which wrapped its truncated, delayed season with the World Series in October, both grappled with numerous game postponements and COVID-19 positives, as players traveled from city to city to compete in a sports landscape thoroughly upended by the pandemic.  Sports (pix:Zlatan Ibrahimovic) AC Milan star Zlatan Ibrahimovic has tested positive for coronavirus, the Italian club said on Thursday. Ibrahimovic, who turns 39 on October 3, has been placed in quarantine at home following the test carried out ahead of the team’s Europa League tie against Norwegian side Bodo-Glimt. “Ibrahimovic… September 24, 2020 In "Sports" *France goalkeeper, Mandanda, also positive Former Chelsea striker Diego Costa is self-isolating after testing positive for coronavirus, Atletico Madrid have announced. The Spanish side conducted pre-season tests on players not on international duty, but Costa and team-mate Santiago Arias were also excluded having already tested positive during their holidays, reports… September 4, 2020 In "Sports" Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo has tested positive for Covid-19, Portugal’s Football Federation said in a statement on its website on Tuesday (Oct 13). The 35-year-old Juventus striker will miss Wednesday’s UEFA Nations League game against Sweden but is “well, has no symptoms and is in isolation”, the federation said.… October 13, 2020 In "Sports"