 Gunmen have abducted Moses Chikwe, the auxiliary bishop of Owerri Catholic archdiocese in Imo state.
Chikwe was said to have been kidnapped in Owerri on Sunday night.
According to online newspaper, TheCable, he was whisked away alongside his driver on Sunday night at a location not far from his residence in the state capital.
His car and official regalia were later found at the premises of the Assumpta Cathedral, also in Owerri.
The state police command confirmed the abduction but did not give further details about the incident.
Orlando Ikeokwu, the command spokesman, said efforts are in progress to rescue the bishop and arrest the kidnappers.
‘The Commissioner of Police has activated the Command’s Quick Intervention Team (QUIT) and the Anti Kidnapping Unit (AKU), to move into the matter with a view to rescue the Bishop and possibly arrest the hoodlums,” he said in a terse statement.
The Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria also confirmed the abduction in a statement by Zacharia Sanjumi, its secretary general.
Victor Obinna, archbishop of the diocese, was quoted as calling for prayers for the safe return of the cleric.  The President of the European Bishops’ Commission has promised persecuted Christians in Nigeria that he will advocate for increased support from the European Union. Cardinal Jean-Claude Hollerich, who leads the Commission of the Bishops’ Conferences of the European Union (COMECE), wrote a letter to the Nigerian bishops stating that… July 4, 2020 In "Faith" Benue: Police rescue businessman, arrest five suspects   Killings in Kaduna State have not abated as gunmen have murdered a lawyer based in the Kaduna metropolis, Mr. Haro Gandu. The armed men also abducted Gandu's wife and son. This was as police in Benue State yesterday said they had rescued… July 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Gunmen have abducted a family of three on the Enugu-Agidi Road in Dunukofia Local Government Area of Anambra State. Earlier before the incident, a Catholic priest escaped from being kidnapped while returning to his parish after he had discovered suspicious movements of young men who had allegedly laid an ambush… December 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"