Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said troops of Operation Whirl Stroke killed two suspected members of a militia gang linked to the late kidnap kingpin, Terwase Akwaze aka Gana, during a fierce encounter at Mbacher Council Ward of the Katsina- Ala Local Government Area of Benue State.  Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said another gang member, who was arrested by the troops, had been handed over to relevant authorities for possible prosecution.  According to the coordinator, the development followed intensified military operations in the North Central Zone of the country, to deny criminals freedom of action. He said: “In continuation of efforts to forestall banditry and other criminal activities in the North Central Zone of the country, troops of Operation Whirl Stroke have continued to sustain both kinetic and non-kinetic operations in the zone.  “On 16 December 2020, troops of Operation Whirl Stroke, acting on credible intelligence on the identified hideout of some of late Gana’s militia gang members in parts of Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of Benue State, conducted a dawn raid on the criminals’ location.  “Troops made contact and engaged the criminals at Adangbe village in Mbacher Council Ward of the local government area. The superior firepower of the troops forced the bandits to flee in disarray.  “However, as troops engaged the criminals in a hot pursuit, two of them were neutralised, while another was arrested by the gallant troops.  “During the encounter, three locally-made rifles, 21 rounds of 7.62mm Special Ammunition as well as other items including a motorcycle were recovered by the troops. The arrested one has been handed over to the police for further action.”  The Defence Hedaquarters (DHQ) has said that troops of Operation Whirl Stroke killed two suspected members of a militia gang linked to the late kidnap kingpin, Terwase Akwaze (a.k.a Gana), during a fierce encounter at Mbacher Council Ward of the Local Government Area.   Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John… December 20, 2020 In "News" The military, Thursday, said troops had uncovered an improvised explosive device (IEDs)-making factory operated by an emerging suspected terrorist group in Nasarawa State. It noted that the Darul Salam Terrorists group was embarking on recruitment drive, through community sermons. Coordinator of the Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, who… August 27, 2020 In "News" Emmanuel Onani, Abuja The Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) has urged troops and other security operatives involved in various internal security operations across theatres, to remain focused on the task of protecting lives and property of citizens. The military maintained that despite some unfortunate incidents, fighting forces had continued… December 4, 2020 In "News"