Scott McTominay became the first player to score twice inside the first three minutes of a Premier League game as Manchester United climbed to third in the table with a remarkable victory over old rivals Leeds at Old Trafford.  The midfielder found the bottom corner with a ferocious drive after just 67 seconds, before doubling his tally moments later with a clever finish from Anthony Martial’s pass. Bruno Fernandes and Victor Lindelof increased the home side’s lead, with Liam Cooper’s header reducing the arrears at the end of a pulsating first 45 minutes.  Daniel James broke clear of the Leeds defence to restore the hosts’ four-goal advantage 20 minutes into the second half, before Fernandes added his second of the game from the penalty spot after Martial had been tripped by Pascal Struijk. Stuart Dallas curled home a stunning second consolation for Leeds – a fitting end to one of the games of the season.  The victory lifts Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side above fourth-placed Everton on goal difference, while Leeds remain seven points above the relegation zone in 14th.  Leeds United ended Aston Villa's 100% winning start and ruined their chance of going top of the Premier League thanks to a brilliant Patrick Bamford hat-trick. Villa came into Friday's game having won their first four games of a league campaign for the first time since 1930-31, but three… October 23, 2020 In "Sports" Leeds United ended Aston Villa's 100% winning start and ruined their chance of going top of the Premier League thanks to a brilliant Patrick Bamford hat-trick. Villa came into Friday's game having won their first four games of a league campaign for the first time since 1930-31, but three… October 24, 2020 In "Sports" *Leicester beat Spurs, Brighton rescue point against 10-man Sheff Utd Manchester United climbed to third in the Premier League with a remarkable victory over Leeds at Old Trafford. Scott McTominay scored twice inside the first three minutes, with Bruno Fernandes and Victor Lindelof adding to the hosts' lead. Liam Cooper… December 20, 2020 In "Sports"