 Two basketball vests – one worn by the NBA superstar Michael Jordan and the other by former US President Barack Obama – sold for record sums at a Los Angeles auction on Friday.
Jordan’s number 23 vest, which he wore when he signed for the Chicago Bulls in 1984, sold for $320,000 (£235,000).
Obama’s vest, worn with his Punahou School team, went for $192,000 – a record for a high-school sports shirt, reports the BBC.
Last year, another one of his high-school vests fetched $120,000.
Julien’s Auctions in Beverly Hills said Obama wore his shirt – also number 23 – in 1979, when he helped his team win the Hawaii basketball state championship.
The ex-president’s love of the game has followed him through life. In his new memoir, A Promised Land, he said he had to stop coaching his daughter Sasha’s basketball team after parents from a rival team complained that he was giving them an unfair advantage.
Michael Jordan – the first billionaire athlete – was at the centre of the Chicago Bulls team that won six NBA championships in the 1990s. A documentary series, The Last Dance, about the team’s standout successes was a hit on Netflix earlier this year.
President Obama appeared as one of the show’s interviewees, saying: “Michael Jordan and the Bulls changed the culture.”
The previous record sum for a Jordan “number 23” shirt was $288,000 in an auction in July.
Also on sale in the latest auction was an autographed Cavaliers shirt worn by current NBA star Lebron James, which sold for $128,000, and an NFL football shirt worn by quarterback Colin Kapaernick, from his debut for the San Francisco 49ers.
Kapaernick’s shirt also sold for $128,000 – a new record for an NFL shirt.
In 2016, Kaepernick became a symbol in the fight against racial injustice when he kneeled in protest during the US national anthem.  The outbreak of the COVID- 19 pandemic across the world put most activities on hold and impacted negatively on people in all spheres of life. With the National Sports Festival just few days away in March, the Nigerian government announced the first lockdown and everything was put on hold but… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" Nigerian basketball player Michael Ojo died of a heart attack during an individual training session in the Serbian capital on Friday, his former club Red Star Belgrade said in a statement on its official website. “It is with great sadness we hereby inform the public that our former centre… August 8, 2020 In "Sports" Eight basketball players with Nigerian roots have been drafted into to play in the elite division of NBA 2020 United States basketball season by top clubs. The draws which were staged on Thursday saw Isaac Okoro, born in the US to Nigerian parents becoming the highest-drafted player with Nigerian root… November 20, 2020 In "Sports"