The Chairman of Ogba/ Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, Chief Ifeanyi Odili, yesterday appealed to the Federal Government to build a permanent Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) centre for victims of flood in the area.  The council boss said there was always flooding in the council area which often affected many people, noting also that the council alone cannot cater for those affected by such incidents.  Speaking while taking delivery of the items donated by the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to households of flood ravaged communities of Ogbba/Egbema/Ndoni, noted that a permanent IDP camp would ameliorate the suffering of those affected.  He thanked NEMA for its timely intervention, and said that machinery had been put in place to ensure that the relief materials got to targeted beneficiaries as representatives of the various families were there for collection.  He said:”We appeal to the federal government to proffer an enduring solution to this natural challenge by building for us permanent Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps, where we can relocate them to any time there is a flood disaster  Seven local government areas in the Anambra North Senatorial district will never forget year 2012 in a hurry. The year will ever remain in the sad memory of the seven local governments who share boundaries with Omabala Urashi and River Niger. Going by the records of the flood disaster which… September 13, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine" As the rains finally returned after a fairly long break, many Nigerians, especially those who live in flood prone areas now live in fears.   This stems from the attendant loss of lives and property whenever there is a deluge due to flooding. The Nigeria Metrological Agency (NiMet) and the… September 27, 2020 In "Feature" Sunday morning at the homestead of Ozo Mathew Akeze in Inoma, Anambra West Local Government Area, has a routine of attending to domestic affairs while children prepare for church service.   But the routine was never to be as a more challenging issue woke the family up with house… October 4, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine"