Borussia Dortmund lost further ground in the Bundesliga title race as they suffered a heavy home defeat by promoted side Stuttgart on Saturday.  Silas Wamangituka put Stuttgart ahead with a 26th-minute penalty, after Emre Can had brought down Mateo Klimowicz. Giovanni Reyna’s wonderful touch and finish from Raphael Guerreiro’s pass drew Dortmund level before half-time. But Stuttgart scored three times in 11 second-half minutes, before Nicolas Gonzalez added a fifth in injury time.  Defeat leaves Lucien Favre’s side fifth and five points behind leaders RB Leipzig, who replaced Bayern Munich at the top with a 2-0 win over Werder Bremen. Dortmund, who finished second last season, have won only one of their past five in the German top flight – with this their third defeat in that run.  Favre’s side came from behind to beat Zenit on Tuesday and secure their place in the Champions League last 16 as Group F winners, but in the absence of injured top scorer Erling Braut Haaland they have taken one point from their past three league games.  Before Stuttgart’s opener, 17-yearold English midfielder Jude Bellingham was denied his first Bundesliga goal as Marco Reus strayed offside during a slick team move. Reyna’s sublime equaliser looked to have set Dortmund up for a much-improved second half, but Wamangituka’s second and quickfire goals from Philipp Forster and Tanguy Coulibaly established an unassailable lead.  Reyna had a late consolation ruled out for offside, before Gonzalez raced clear in stoppage time to seal a memorable victory for Stuttgart, who move one place and two points behind Dortmund in the table.   Borussia Dortmund lost further ground in the Bundesliga title race as they suffered a heavy home defeat by promoted side Stuttgart on Saturday. Silas Wamangituka put Stuttgart ahead with a 26th-minute penalty, after Emre Can had brought down Mateo Klimowicz. Giovanni Reyna's wonderful touch and finish from Raphael Guerreiro's pass… December 12, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich maintained their two-point advantage at the top of the Bundesliga as Hansi Flick's side came from behind to beat Stuttgart. Lassana Coulibaly swept in from Silas Wamangituka's excellent low cross to put Stuttgart ahead on the counter-attack.   Kingsley Coman levelled for Bayern and Robert Lewandowski's powerful strike… November 29, 2020 In "Politics" *Polish forward has 10 goals in five Bundesliga games *Quagliarella, Sampdoria shock Atalanta Robert Lewandowski bagged a hat-trick as Bayern Munich thumped Eintracht Frankfurt 5-0. In a typically ruthless Bayern performance, the forward struck twice in the first half-hour and added a third after half-time, before the substitutes Leroy Sané and Jamal Musiala completed… October 25, 2020 In "Sports"