The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as callous, the unwarranted tear gas attack by the police on the parents of the kidnapped students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State. PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, condemned such attack “meted on the grief-stricken parents after President Muhammadu Buhari, who had gone holidaying in the state, failed to protect their children from terrorists.  “It is indeed sad that instead of going after terrorists and insurgents that struck few hours after a holidaying President Buhari and his security machinery took over the state, the state apparatus of power is being used to inflict further pain on the helpless victims.  “Such display of insensitivity further foregrounds the lack of empathy by the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration and serves as a sad reminder of how it also blamed the 43 farmers recently slain by terrorists in Borno State, instead of taking steps to apprehend the assailants.  “Indeed, our party shares the pains and sorrows of these parents who have been under serious torment.”  PDP called on Buhari to apologise to Nigerians and the parents of the kidnapped students as well as take steps to ensure disciplinary actions on those who ordered the tear gas attack on the parents.  It restated the call to President Buhari to go in search of and rescue the students who were kidnapped while his security machinery was in charge of the state.  PDP reiterated its stand not to rest until President Buhari finds and rescues each of these young ones.  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as callous, the unwarranted tear gas attack by the police on the grieving parents of the kidnapped students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State.   PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan condemned the attack "meted… December 13, 2020 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the army to immediately fish out the bandits that attacked the Government Science Secondary School (GSSS), Kankara, Katsina State on Friday and ensure that none of the students gets missing or is harmed.   In the attack, which is said to have occurred at about… December 13, 2020 In "News" Nigeria’s opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the statement credited to the Presidency that the slain Borno farmers did not obtain military clearance before going to their farm, amount to insensitivity and a spat on the grave of the slain farmers.   This is even as the… December 1, 2020 In "News"