 Tokyo Olympics officials on Wednesday announced a new creative team that will be responsible for redesigning the opening and closing ceremonies at next year’s Games, which will be pared back due to COVID-19 safeguards.
The new creative team will be headed by Hiroshi Sasaki, who was one of seven directors previously responsible for the opening and closing events, reports Reuters.
Sasaki said his team was now running on a tight schedule to revamp plans for “simplified” ceremonies.
“Conditions are fairly tough… But, at this stage, honestly, progress isn’t being made yet,” Sasaki told a press conference.
The Games, originally scheduled to start this summer, were postponed by a year due to the coronavirus pandemic, which has severely disrupted the international sporting calendar.
Since then, organisers and government officials have been looking at ways to cut costs, simplify the Games and safeguard athletes and spectators. Still, there has been lingering doubt about the viability of holding a large-scale, global event as the pandemic continues to rage.
Although the ceremony planners were short on details, Sasaki said he pictured the ceremonies as an opportunity to show the world a message of “breakthrough or hope” during the pandemic.
On Tuesday, organisers said they would spend $900 million on measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus at next year’s Games.  *Games to begin July 23, 2021 The postponed Tokyo Olympic Games will go ahead next year "with or without Covid", the vice-president of the International Olympic Committee says. John Coates confirmed to news agency AFP that the Olympics would start on July 23 next year, calling them the "Games that… September 7, 2020 In "Sports" The Aisha Falode-led Nigeria Women Football League on Wednesday in Abuja held the draws for the Nigeria Women Premiership league, which has been tentatively scheduled to kick-off across Nigeria on December 9, 2020, subject to the ratification of the Nigeria Football Federation. At the draws ceremony held at the conference… October 30, 2020 In "Sports" Athletes will resume camping for the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games taking place in 2021, the ministry of sports has announced. The ministry, in a press statement released on Thursday, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent, said athletes in taekwondo, rowing and para-Rowing and Canoeing and Para-Canoeing… November 20, 2020 In "Sports"