The Australian Open will start on February 8 next year after being pushed back three weeks because of the coronavirus pandemic. The first Grand Slam of the 2021 season was scheduled to take place in Melbourne from January 18-31, reports the BBC. The four-day qualifying event has been moved to Doha, Qatar and will start on January 10. Players will arrive in Melbourne on January 15 for a 14-day quarantine period under local coronavirus rules. The news was confirmed when the ATP announced the schedule for the first seven weeks of the men’s tour next year. The season will start with events in Delray Beach in the United States and Antalya in Turkey on January 5. There will be two tournaments in Melbourne starting on January 31 – one of which is the relocated Adelaide International – while a condensed 12-team ATP Cup will take place from February 1-5. “The reconfigured calendar for the start of the 2021 season represents a huge collaborative effort across tennis, under challenging circumstances,” said ATP Chairman Andrea Gaudenzi. “Health and safety will continue to be paramount as we navigate the challenges ahead.”  Australian Open tournament director Craig Tiley has moved to allay fears the season-opening tennis grand slam and its buildup tournaments could be hampered by strict biosecurity protocols to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Tiley said on Sunday that Tennis Australia was still "doing everything we can… November 22, 2020 In "Sports" International football activities are set to begin in three months following a directive by CAF. The international programme opens with the delayed Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers, which stopped after Match Day 2. The Match day 3 and 4 were slated for the last week of March. They could… August 19, 2020 In "Sports" Novak Djokovic, who beat Diego Schwartzman, 7-5, 6-3, in Rome on Monday to win a record 36th ATP Masters title, heads for Paris as worried as everyone else in the game that at least two players trying to qualify for the French Open have tested positive for Covid-19. The… September 22, 2020 In "Sports"