The counsel for the #EndSARS protesters, Mr. Adesina Ogunlana, yesterday asked the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of SARS related abuses and other matters to summon Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and 12 others. He made said this in a December 9 application to the panel’s Chairman, Judge Emeritus Doris Okuwobi. The application said the proposed invitees could provide information concerning the Lekki shootings of October 20 or its aftermath. The Nigerian Army has denied #EndSARS protesters allegations that it shot at, injured and killed several peaceful protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate. Besides the governor, the others named in the application include Minister of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing Mr. Babatunde Fashola SAN; Chief Executive Officer of Loatsad Promomedia Ltd, Mr. Seyi Tinubu; Managing Director, Oriental Hotel; Divisional Police Officer, Maroko Police Station and Lekki Concession Company Officials in charge of information Technology Intelligence and Security. Ogunlana also requested that the panel invite officials of seven private and governmentowned hospitals. They are: Chief Medical Director, Lagos Island General Hospital; Chief Medical Director, Reddington Hospital, Lekki and Victoria Island; Chief Medical Director, Grandville Hospital, Ajah; General Hospital, Ikeja; Chief Pathologist, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. The rest are: The Provost, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH); The Chief Medical Director, Orthopedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos. They “have played certain roles to qualify as being part of those who can give relevant and useful information to the Panel for use to it purpose as regards the ‘LEKKI SHOOTING’.   The counsel for the #EndSARS protesters, Mr. Adesina Ogunlana, Friday asked the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of SARS related abuses and other matters to summon Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and 12 others. He made said this in a December 9 application to the panel’s Chairman,… December 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...to make CCTV Footage available to Judicial Panel The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday said that the Federal and Lagos State Government would ensure that anyone found culpable in last Tuesday's shooting at the Lekki Toll Plaza would be held accountable for their actions. Speaking during an interview… October 27, 2020 In "News" *Says Army's unhappy Sanwo-Olu denied inviting them Brig. Gen. Ahmed Taiwo of the Nigerian Army has alleged that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu invited the military during the End SARS in Lagos to avoid total anarchy. Taiwo is the Commander, 81 Military Intelligence Brigade, Victoria Island. He also said the Nigerian Army… November 14, 2020 In "Top Stories"