To showcase societal decadence and the ruthless use of force by uniformed men, “With our Uniform” a satirical stage drama written by Olutayo Irantiola came alive at the just concluded Lagos Fringe Festival. The play was staged between 20th and 22nd November at Freedom Park, Lagos Island. The drama, directed by Lanre Quadri, tells the story of how uniformed men extort innocent and unsuspecting citizens of their hard-earned income, just to augment their poor remuneration. Speaking on the inspiration behind the production, Olutayo Irantiola, revealed his passion for using art to reform the society and instilling quality value.  He said, ’With Our Uniform’ is “a satire about the law enforcement agency – Police force, fused with comedy and witty dialogue. The response of the law enforcement officers to the spate of protests in Nigeria is quite disturbing. My concerns are particularly about the injustice experienced by majority of our young and vibrant youths in the country.  “I am committed to telling the Nigerian story through plays. My art seeks to explore topical issues that affect the everyday Nigerian. The drama is an imitation of life and I am thrilled that it captures important facts in a subtle but entertaining way”. Commenting on the play, Lanre Quadri who directed the drama said, “I am delighted we were able to bring our ideas to life and people were able to connect to the play.  We were able to get talented crew and so rehearsals were done within a short time. I have always wanted to work on a project that addresses societal issues and I believe this drama would spur the change we desire. It also serves as a reminder of what was and what could be.”  The cast includes Damilola Adebayo, Ismaila Adeshina, Agnes Olayemi, Ogunse Tosin, Akintunde Tosin and Osho Olowu Micheal, and Adeniyi Oluwafemi. Others are: Christiana Ndukwe, Friday Onyenankeya, Lawrence Babatunde and Damilola Adeyinka. Irantiola is renowned within the Art and Literary circles.  He is the convener of the Literary Reading Group; Atokun of Yoruba Lakotun and Public Relations Professional. This production is his debut and he promises to tell more stories that will lead to the desired attitudinal change in the society.  ‘Shoeless Night’ is the title of a gripping and compelling story written by Oluwafemi Oloidi. Published by Omojojolo Press, Nigeria, the 187-page book captures, in amazing details, the gruesome encounter of four exuberant youths in the hands of the Nigeria Police Force in Port Harcourt. It is a true-life story… September 16, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Commuters were stranded at different bus stops in parts of Lagos metropolis yesterday as bus drivers embarked on a strike. The impact of the strike was also felt in communities in the fringe of Lagos and Ogun states. The drivers were protesting alleged extortions by the Task Force and officials… September 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" "The Police are often as corrupt as the corporate government that employs them" – Steven Magee The recent yawp against the Nigeria Police unit known as Special Armed Robbery Squad, notoriously called SARS yielded result last Sunday when the Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, announced the scrapping of… October 15, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"