 Nigerian music superstars, Wizkid and Burna Boy, won big at the 2020 Music of Black Origin Awards (MOBO) which was streamed live on YouTube in the early hours of Thursday.
Wizkid was named the Best African Act while Burna Boy clinched the Best International Act award.
Wizkid was nominated alongside Burna Boy, Davido, Rema, Fireboy, Adekunle Gold and Tiwa Savage in the Best African Act category.
This is Wizkid’s fourth MOBO win. He has won the MOBO Best African Act” and “Best International Act” Award at different times.
In the Best International Act category, Burna Boy and Rema were nominated alongside Drake, Megan Thee Stallion, the late Pop Smoke, Lil Baby and more, reports online news portal premium times.
The MOBO Awards which has just returned after a three-year haitus was hosted by media personality and YouTube content creator, Maya Jama.
It featured performances from U.K artists such as Ms Banks, Headie One, M Huncho, Kojey Radical, Shaybo, Tiana Major9 and Loski.
H.E.R, Davido, Tiwa Savage and Stylo G also performed at the event.
The MOBO Awards are an annual music award presentation honouring achievements in “music of black origin”, including hip hop, grime, R&B, soul, reggae, jazz, gospel, and African music.
See the full list of the 2020 Mobo award winners below.
Album of the year: Nines – Crabs in a Bucket
Best male act: Headie One
Best female act: Mahalia
Song of the year (public vote): Young T & Bugsey – Don’t Rush (feat Headie One)
Best newcomer (public vote): Aitch
Video of the year: NSG – Lupita
Best R&B/soul act: Mahalia
Best hip-hop act: Nines
Best grime act (public vote): JME
Best international act (public vote): Burna Boy
Best performance in a TV show/film: Michael Ward as Marco, Blue Story
Best media personality: Chunkz
Best album 2017-2019: Ella Mai – Ella Mai
Best African act: Wizkid
Best reggae act: Buju Banton
Best gospel act: CalledOut Music
Best jazz act: Ego Ella May
Best producer: Jae5
Inspiration award: Steve McQueen  MTV has announced nominations for the “2020 MTV EMAs, and Nigerian singers Burna Boy and Rema have been nominated for the Best African Act. BET Awards 2020 winner and Grammy nominee, Burna Boy has once again been nominated in the Best African Act, a category he won in 2019. Other… October 9, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" On November 24, 2020, Nigerian superstar, Burna Boy got his second Grammy nomination in the Best Global Music category. This award comes from his latest album, 'Twice As Tall.' Earlier in 2020, Burna Boy's album, African Giant lost the category to Anqelique Kidjo's reimagination of Celia Cruz's music on the… November 28, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Nigerian music stars Burna Boy and Rema have both clinched nominations for the 2020 MTV EMA. The two singers will be vying for the award of the Best African Act alongside stars from other African countries. Other African singers in the category include Master KG, Kabza de Small and… October 7, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"