 The task of sniffing out passengers infected with COVID-19 at Chile’s Santiago international airport is going to the dogs.
A team of Golden Retrievers and Labradors sit when they smell the virus and get a treat. The canines sport green “biodetector” jackets with a red cross, reports Reuters.
Passengers at an airport health checkpoint wipe their necks and wrists with gauze pads that are then put in glass containers and sent to the dogs to see if they detect COVID-19.
Sniffer dogs are best-known for finding drugs and explosives but have also previously been trained to detect malaria, cancer and Parkinson’s disease.
Dogs trained to detect the novel coronavirus have already begun sniffing passenger samples at airports in the United Arab Emirates and Finland.
A study recently found dogs can identify infected individuals with 85% to 100% accuracy and rule out infection with 92% to 99% accuracy.
Chile’s Carabinero police trained the dogs and Inspector General Esteban Diaz said dogs have more than 3 million olfactory receptors, more than 50 times those of humans, so were uniquely placed to help fight the coronavirus.
Infections in Chile are far down from a peak in June but have begun rising again with about 2,000 new cases on average reported each day, according to a Reuters tally. Chile has a total of 589,189 confirmed cases and 16,217 deaths from the disease.  With a week extension for the resumption of international flights from the Lagos airport, the Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) MMIA is to embark on a sweep of the terminal hall for drugs hidden in and around the terminal. The NDLEA Airport Commander, Mr. Ahmadu Garba in a chat… August 30, 2020 In "Business" With a week extension for the resumption of international flights from the Lagos airport, the Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) MMIA is to embark on a sweep of the terminal hall for drugs hidden in and around the terminal. The NDLEA Airport Commander, Mr. Ahmadu Garba in a chat… August 30, 2020 In "Business" ORDERLINESS Ninety per cent of the agency’s workforce have been trained by World Health Organisation   T he Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) says it has concluded plans to  restrict multiple departures of airlines from the same terminals at the same time when flights resume.       The… June 30, 2020 In "Business"