Ahead of the Christmas and New Year celebrations, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has directed Commissioners of Police (CP) in charge of the 36 state commands and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to ensure maximum security during and after the Yuletide.  T he IGP’s order was conveyed in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), CP Frank Mba.  “The Inspector-General of Police has ordered 24/7 water-tight security arrangement and proactive high visibility patrols in all the states of the Federation and the FCT, ahead of the Christmas and New Year Celebrations,” Mba said.  According to him, “The IGP gave the directives to all Assistant Inspectors- General of Police and Commissioners of Police in charge of Zonal and State Commands nationwide to ensure a peaceful celebration.  “The IGP equally directed the Strategic Officers to ensure massive deployment of intelligence and other operational assets of the Force, particularly  reon major highways, airports, railway stations, recreational centres, motor parks, places of worship, financial institutions, amongst others.  “They are also to ensure that personnel deployed are adequately supervised for utmost professionalism in the discharge of their duties. He warned that acts bordering on indiscipline, extortion and intimidation of travellers and other road users will not be condoned.”  While congratulating Christians in the country as they join other faithful across the globe to celebrate the symbolic anniversary of the Birth of Christ, the IGP expressed profound appreciation to all Nigerians for their support to the Police and other security agencies in the fight against crimes in the country.  He assured of improved police service delivery and security generally in the incoming year, 2021.  Meanwhile, the IGP enjoined Nigerians to take precautionary measures to reduce exposure to security risks and the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic.  This was as he stressed that citizens should avoid night travels, over-speeding, over-loading, stopping on lonely highways and unnecessary flaunting of personal details/wealth on social media.  Citizens are also enjoined to voluntarily adhere to the COVID-19 prevention regulations and protocols to prevent further spread of the virus  The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has ordered Assistant Inspectors General as well as Commissioners of Police in charge of the 36 state commands and the Federal Capital Territory, to beef up security before, during and after the Eid-el Kabir celebration. The police chief's directive was conveyed… July 30, 2020 In "News" …orders nationwide illegal arms mop-up   Ahead of the gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed  Adamu, yesterday, revealed that politicians are arming thugs and moving them across the country.   Consequently, the IGP has ordered Commissioners of Police in the 36 states… August 17, 2020 In "News" ...Commands CPs to clampdown on offenders In his determination to ensure hitch-free gubernatorial elections in Edo and Ondo states, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has ordered Commissioners of Police in the 36 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), "to immediately initiate appropriate actions to… August 16, 2020 In "News"