BUA Group has donated three ambulances and 100,000 facemasks to the Borno State Government to combat COVID-19 in the state.  This is coming barely a day after 418 new cases of COVID-19 were recorded in 16 states, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) of Nigeria.  It would be recalled that BUA had last week donated a total of nine ambulances and 150,000 facemasks to Bauchi, Gombe and Kaduna governments.  Presenting the donations, Aliyu Idi Hong, Director of Government Relations, BUA Group, said BUA remains committed to improving the quality of life of Nigerians through its social investments programmes.  He commended Governor Babagana Umara Zulum of Borno State for his commitment to combating the pandemic in the state.  Hong said: “The BUA Chairman, Abdul Samad  Rabiu, has been contributing towards the fight against COVID-19 and improving the quality of life of Nigerians. This is why we’re donating three ambulances and 100,000 facemasks to curtail the pandemic in the state.  We’re already seeing the second wave of COVID-19. In the past few days, we have seen the resurgence of the pandemic, and as a corporate organisation, we want to help in solving this problem.”  Responding, Zulum thanked the Founder and Chairman of BUA for the donations. He noted: “These three ambulances and 100,000 facemasks will go a long way in ensuring the combating the COVID-19 crisis in the state.  On behalf of the government and people of Borno State, I convey my deepest appreciation to the BUA Chairman, Abdul Samad Rabiu for donating these items. This is not his first donation to Borno State and we remain eternally grateful to him.”  BUA Group has donated three fully-equipped ambulances and 50,000 reusable facemasks to Gombe State government. This came after the company donated 50,000 facemasks and three ambulances to Bauchi State. The items were presented to Governor Muhammad Yahaya of Gombe State, by the Director, Government Relations, BUA Group, Dr. Aliyu Idi… December 9, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" BUA Group has donated three fully-equipped ambulances and 50,000 reusable facemasks to the Kaduna State Government. This came barely 48 hours after Bauchi and Gombe states received three ambulances and 50,000 facemasks each from the group. This is in addition to the N100 million BUA gave to the Kaduna State… December 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" BUA Group has donated three ambulances and 50,000 facemasks to Bauchi State in line with its continued efforts to combat the spread of coronavirus in the country.   Presenting the ambulances and facemasks to Governor Bala Mohammed, the Director, Government Relations, BUA, Dr. Aliyu Idi Hong, reechoed the commitment of… December 8, 2020 In "News"