After hitting a four year low on Monday, the naira has staged a minor rebound due to a broadly weaker dollar. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) weakened the naira for the third time this year amid dollar shortages and lower than anticipated foreign currency inflows.   Although the local currency weakened to N500 in the parallel markets, prices are trading around N470 and could extend gains in the week ahead if the dollar extends its steep descent. However, given the fact that Nigeria has experienced a fall in foreign exchange inflows, this is likely to limit the naira’s upside.  According to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), production of crude and condensates slide month on month in September. Production fell by just over three per cent to 1.594 million b/d, further clouding the country’s growth prospects. It must be kept in mind that Nigeria pledged to cut production in August and September to compensate for pumping more than its OPEC+ quota. The drop in production is likely to hit export earnings, government revenues, and the ability for the CBN to continue defending the naira.  Speaking of oil, OPEC and Russia have finally struck a cautious deal to boost oil supply from January after the initial disagreements. Producers agreed to raise output by 500,000 barrels a day in January, far below the two million barrels per day initially agreed. Future output levels are set to be decided at monthly ministerial meetings.  Oil prices welcomed the news, with WTI pushing beyond the $46.00 level while Brent approached $50. Positive news on the vaccine front and optimism around the global economy recovering may translate to higher oil prices in the week ahead.  In other news, diaspora remittances to Nigeria have dropped significantly according to the CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele. Given how remittances have dropped by about 40 per cent in Q2 to $3.4 billion, this may impact dollar liquidity and compound to the themes pressuring the country  Scarcity of forex occasioned by the fall in the prices crude oil in the international market, Nigeria’s main export and source of foreign exchange, have started taking toll on the economy. PAUL OGBUOKIRI reports   Lenders to limit debit card spending abroad to ease FX risk   Indications during the… July 26, 2020 In "Business" The Naira seems to have entered a free fall mode against the dollar on the parallel market, as the local currency further fell to N495/$1 yesterday from N487 per dollar on Wednesday. It had exchanged for N484/$1 at the weekend. Data obtained from “Abokifx,” a website that tracks forex rates… November 27, 2020 In "News" After appearing to have stabilised against the dollar across foreign exchange markets in recent days, the naira on Wednesday and yesterday fell to N465 per dollar at the parallel market from N463/$1 last week, traders said. The local currency has been under pressure at the parallel market since the beginning… October 30, 2020 In "Business"