 Apart from enlarging the state chapter of the Nigeria Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), through induction of new members, surviving COVID-19 has been one of the greatest achievements of the institute within the year.
The Chairman of the State Chapter of the NIPR, Mr. Nsemeke Udoakpan stated this on Monday at the Image House, during the 2020 end of year get-together organised for the Institute by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong.
Udoakpan, who was reeling out the scorecard of the State chapter within the year, emphasized that, much of what would have been undertaken was distorted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which kept the Institute locked down for months, stressing that, even the survival of COVID-19 is a great achievement.
“We lost three members during my leadership, we couldn’t hold our ’round table’, as regular as we should due to the challenges of pandemic, infact, surviving COVID-19, is a great achievement,” the Chairman said.
He, however, expressed with delight that, despite the dampening season of the pandemic, the Institute still had cause to be happy as some achievements were recorded by the state chapter of NIPR.
“Within the year, we were able to host the National Council of NIPR in the state, organise induction for 15 new members, earned the appointment of our members into elevated offices, including Comrade Ini Ememobong as a Commissioner and member of the State Executive Council and Borono Bassey as the State PDP Publicity Secretary,” Nsemeke Udoakpan added.
Speaking, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, who was the Special Guest at the occasion, expressed delight that, the state chapter was growing in membership strength, reiterating that, his ministry, through the Directorate of Public Relations will work out modalities for the induction of more members towards establishing a study centre for NIPR in the state.
“What makes, some victims of accident with greater degree of injury survive, while those without much harm die, is merely the mindset of the victims, what makes a hospitalized patient which doctors lost hope on, survive while those doctors had faith in die, is probably because of their mindset and attitude towards life. So I urge you all to cultivate positive attitude and mindset,” the Information helmsman stated.
Comrade Ini Ememobong reminded members that, it is the duty of practitioners to shape public perception towards positive acceptance of government as major stakeholders in the development of the state and charged the Institute to join the Ministry of Information and Strategy as it gears towards positive public perception of the present government of Governor Udom Emmanuel.
The event featured the presentation of Goodwill messages by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Strategy, Mr. Inyang Jameson, a council member of NIPR and Director of NDDC, Mr. Obot Udoette, a former Director of Protocol in the State, Mr. Okon Imerh, the Head of Department of Communication Arts, University of Uyo, Prof Nsikan Nkanga, a veteran of NIPR, Chief Asam Usoroh and a PR practitioner, Mrs. Edidiong Inyang.  Pan-African conglomerate, Dangote Group, has been adjudged the best company in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for its interventions that helped the vulnerable, at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. Lagos State Council of the Nigeria Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) also voted Dangote Group as the ‘Best Company in Infrastructure… December 23, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has received Best Regulatory Information Management award from the Lagos Public Relations Industry Gala and Awards (LaPRIGA Awards) held in Lagos. According to a statement from the Exchange, the award which was presented by Mr. Segun Mcmedal, Chairman, Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute… December 31, 2020 In "Business" An affiliate of the FleishmanHillard, global PR network, Mediacraft Associates has appoints Segun McMedal as its director of innovation and business development. His appointment takes effect from Monday, January 4, 2021. He is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) and the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria… January 4, 2021 In "Business"