The Federal Government has renewed its commitment towards universal healthcare in the country, saying that stakeholders’ collaboration remained fundamental to achieving its goal.  Minister of State fo rHealth, Senator Olorunimbe Mamora, gave the undertakingyesterday in Abuja, at the 2020 induction luncheon organised by the Institute of Public Analysts of Nigeria (IPAN).  A total of 47 inductees were admitted as certified analysts, having satisfied the requirements set out by IPAN, a chartered professional body of public analysts supervised by the Federal Ministry of Health.  Also, the institute was charged with the statutory responsibility of regulating the practice of analytical laboratory as well as registering and regulating analytical laboratories in the country.  While congratulating the newly-inducted public analysts on their successful training, Mamora charged them to uphold the ethics of their profession.  The minister, who was represented by his Senior Technical Assistant, Dr. David Atowo, said: “Our march towards universal healthcare cannot be achieved without organisations like yours to ensure quality healthcare.” Mamora, however, urged IPANtoconsiderrelocating to Abuja, to ensure effective collaborationbetweentheministry and the organisation   ...as IPAN inducts 47 new members The Federal Government has renewed its commitment towards universal healthcare in the country, saying stakeholders' collaboration remained fundamental to achieving the goal. Minister of State for Health, Senator Olorunimbe Mamora, gave the undertaking on Tuesday in Abuja, at the 2020 induction luncheon organised by… December 15, 2020 In "Health" The House of Representatives has called on members of the public to be wary of the kind of drugs they purchase and consume, following the looting of a warehouse belonging to the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), in Kaduna State. Seized fake and expired drugs were… October 28, 2020 In "News" Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire has urged members of the Guild of Medical Directors (GMD) to take advantage of the financial facilities made available to the private health sector by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to advance their practice. According to Ehanire who made the call recently, a… November 5, 2020 In "Health"