Gunmen have killed a naval officer at a check-point at Kwale in Ndokwa West Local Government Area of Delta State.  The armed men reportedly ambushed naval officers at their duty post and shot the victim.  Also, a stray bullet from an officer of the newly inaugurated Delta State Security outfit – Operation Delta Hawk, killed a yet-to-be-identified woman in Asaba, the state capital. One of the officers shot a suspected criminal who tried to evade arrest but the bullet hit the victim in her shop.  She died on the spot. “They were chasing a young boy who was trying to escape. They opened fire on him around the Government House but the bullet killed the woman,” a witness said.  The witness said the Operation Delta Hawk officers abandoned the victim’s body at the scene as an angry mob wanted to attack them.  The Director-General (DG), Young Nigerian Rights Organisation, Comrade Victor Ojei, said: “the Army is to defend our country, the police is to protect civilians but it is unfortunate that when you now involve the Army in internal affairs/security, expect the worse”.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the killing of the woman. “It is true but we do not have enough details of the circumstances,” the PPRO said.  Gunmen have killed a naval officer at a check-point at Kwale in Ndokwa West Local Government Area of Delta State. The armed men reportedly ambushed naval officers at their duty post and shot the victim.   Also, a stray bullet from an officer of the newly inaugurated Delta State Security… December 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Prominent monarch shot dead Armed robbers yesterday laid siege to Ode-Irele, the headquarters of Irele Local Government Area of Ondo State and raided a bank. This occurred as gunmen killed the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Israel Adeusi, in Ondo State. The robbery occurred hours after the visit of the Inspector… November 27, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Fear gripped the residents of Issele- Uku, Delta State, as dare-devil armed robbers raided the branch of a first generation bank and killed four people. Issele-Uku is the headquarters of Aniocha North Local Government Area. The robbers injured several bank customers and operated unhindered for more than one hour. The… April 1, 2021 In "Metro & Crime"