A 50-year-old man, Kamoru Smaila, has been apprehended for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old girl in Ondo State. Smaila reportedly lured the girl, his neighbour’s daughter, to an uncompleted building beside his house to commit the crime. The incident occurred at Adelabu Street, Danjuma axis of Akure South Local Government Area.  According to residents of the area, Smaila was caught by neighbours after the victim raised the alarm. While denying defiling the girl, the suspect failed to explain how semen and blood stains were visible on the girl’s body. The girl said Smaila asked her to follow him to the uncompleted building where he defiled her while he covered her mouth when she was trying to shout.  The incident attracted several onlookers. It took the intervention of men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to rescue him from a mob action. He was almost lynched by irate youths in the area.  The state NSCDC Public Relations Officer (PRO), ASC Olufemi Omole, confirmed Smaila’s arrest. He said: “The matter is under investigation. The victim has been taken to the government hospital for medical check up.”  Police in Ogun State have arrested 54-year-old Niyi Omowodun for allegedly defiling a 12-year-old girl (name withheld). The incident was said to have happened at Itele Ota in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state. The suspect, who claimed to be a pastor, allegedly lured the teenager into an uncompleted… July 1, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Bauchi Police have arrested two people for allegedly defiling a 16-year-old mentallychallenged girl at Azare town in Katagum Local Government Area of Bauchi State.   The police also arrested a man, Godiya Ishaku, who allegedly induced an 18-yearold girl, identified as Blessing, took her to an uncompleted building, injured her… March 8, 2021 In "Metro & Crime" A 60-year-old man, named Haruna Lawal, has been arrested by the Police in Niger State for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl after luring her with N100.   The New Telegraph learnt that the incident, which occurred last week Saturday in Anguwan Barwa, in Wushishi Local Government Area, had the sexagenarian lure… July 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"