Police in Ogun State have arrested a 35-year-old suspected human trafficking kingpin, Comfort Innocent, for alleged abduction and trafficking of two underage girls.  The woman was arrested on Tuesday, December 22. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the arrest to journalists in Abeokuta yesterday.  According to Oyeyemi, the suspect, whose husband is based in Italy, recruited underage girls for prostitution through Libya to Scene of an accident her husband in Italy.  Olubasa IG, Adamu Innocent The PPRO said the suspect was arrested following a report by two women, Oluwaseun Aduratola and Sakirat Fasasi, both residents of Siun town in Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of the state.  The complainants reported at Owode Egba Police Station that the suspect abducted their daughters – Blessing Aduratola (15) and Hasisat Fasasi (16).  They explained that the suspect, described as a notorious human trafficker, was about taking the two girls to Libya where they would be forced into prostitution. “On the strength of the report, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Owode Egba Division, Mathew Ediae, quickly swung into action with his detectives and through intelligence-driven investigation, they succeeded in arresting the suspect.  “On interrogation, the suspect confessed been a human trafficker and that she has been into the business for a long time. “She confessed further that her husband is based in Italy while she stays in Nigeria recruiting young girls and sending them to her husband in Italy en route Libya where they will be used for prostitution.  “She confessed that the two girls she recently abducted had been taken to Kaduna State from where they would be transported to Libya,” the PPRO said.  Oyeyemi disclosed that the two victims had been rescued from Kaduna by the police. According to him, the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation.  Police in Ogun State have arrested two suspects for allegedly abducting and gang-raping a 14-year-old girl (name withheld).   The suspects, Michael Hammed Azeez (20) and Adeola Ogunseye (22), were arrested on Wednesday, at Owode Egba in Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of the state.   The state Police Public… November 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" …victim can no longer control her urinary system Police in Ogun State have arrested the Baale of Oose Agbedu Ajibawo village in Owode- Egbado area, Chief Rasheed Sholabi, for allegedly having unlawful carnal knowledge of his 15-year-old daughter (name withheld). The village head was arrested following a report by the… August 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Police have arrested an Arabic and Islamic teacher, Ismaila Saheed, and another man, Toliha Sabith, for allegedly defiling a 15-year-old girl (name withheld) in Ogun State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said in a statement yesterday that the incident occurred at Imedu- Nla area of… September 1, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"