Residents of Osun State in Atakumosa West local government area have warned against violators of law, banning Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in the state, saying violators would face banishment as prescribed by the community.  At a public declaration of FGM abandonment by the people of Oke-Bode, Osunjela, Oke-Osin, Kajola and Prince Communities, the community leaders said violators would not be allowed to continue to live in their communities.  The public declaration of FGM abandonment in the communities was organised by Action Health Incorporated, (AHI) in collaboration with the state Ministries of Health and Women & Children Affairs with the support of United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). AHI Programme Officer, Miss Abdulrasheed Nuriyah said the objective of the exercise was to ensure and secure full commitment of the Communities on the FGM abandonment in their areas.  However, the FGM Analyst with UNFPA, Uzoma Ayodeji, expressed joy over the development as he charged residents to ensure total eradication of the practice.  The Gender Desk Officers, Ministries of Health, Women, Children & Social Affairs, Toyin Adelowokan and Ms. Olufunmilola Adewale said the battle to end FGM in the state was yielding good results with appreciable number of communities that had willingly accepted to end the practice.  Leaders in the communities, Chief Shina Awoyemi, Chief Gboroode Gbenga, Malam Fatai Akande, Mr. Adebayo Timothy Obisesan and Apostle Arapasopo Johnson said the communities unanimously agreed to end FGM with a verdict that violators would be sanctioned to serve as deterrence to others.   The battle to end Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in Osun State gained more ground in Ede North Local Government Area of the state yesterday as residents of Adejuwon, Owode-Ede, Olasupo Ede and Araromi Communities publicly declared an end to the age-old tradition. Leaders in the community, Nureni Adebayo Salami Adegboye,… November 13, 2020 In "News" Four Communities in Ifelodun Local Government Area of Osun State-- Eko Ajala, Obaagun, Iba and Eko Ende have publicly declared an end to age-old tradition and practice of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in the area.   At a public declaration of FGM abandonment organised by Action Health Incorporated (AHI) in… November 10, 2020 In "News" United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), yesterday said it would train duty bearers; policemen, Social Welfare Officers, Civil Defence, judicial officers and other relevant stakeholders in Ebonyi State with a view to ending Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in the state. Chief – UNICEF Enugu, Dr. Ibrahim Conteh stated this in Ntezi,… October 30, 2020 In "News"