 Rapper Lil Wayne pled guilty in federal court to illegally possessing a firearm, prosecutors said on Friday, and he faces up to 10 years in prison.
Wayne, 38, was found last December with a loaded, gold-plated .45 caliber handgun in his baggage aboard a private plane that had landed at an executive airport near Miami.
The rapper was previously found guilty of a felony crime, prohibiting him from having the weapon or ammunition, reports Reuters.
Prosecutors from the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Southern District of Florida said in a written statement that police had received an anonymous tip that Wayne was carrying the firearm.
Howard Srebnick, the last known lawyer representing Wayne, whose real name is Dwayne Michael Carter, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Wayne is scheduled to be sentenced on January 28.
TMZ reported on its website on Friday that Wayne reached a plea deal with prosecutors in exchange for leniency, but ultimately his sentence is up to U.S. District Judge Kathleen Williams.
Prosecutors did not immediately respond to requests for comment regarding any plea deal.  American rapper, Lil Wayne, has been dumped by his girlfriend for endorsing President Donald Trump. The music star's plus size model girlfriend, Denise Bidot took to her Instagram page on Thursday where she confirmed the split; "Sometimes love just isn’t enough” alongside a broken-heart emoji. According to PageSix, the model… November 7, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" A 17-year-old Florida boy accused of masterminding the hacking of celebrity accounts on Twitter Inc, including those of Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and Tesla Chief Executive Elon Musk, pled not guilty to charges on Tuesday. Graham Clark told Circuit Court Judge Christopher Nash in Tampa that he was… August 5, 2020 In "News" Three men have been sentenced to death by hanging in Ogun State and Ekiti State. While one of them was convicted in Ogun State, the two others were sentenced to death in Ekiti State for armed robbery.   An Ogun State High Court, sitting in Abeokuta, yesterday sentenced a 36-year-old… November 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"