 Italian Serie B side Chievo have said that their Nigerian player Joel Obi was the victim of a racist insult from a player with Pisa, who denied the accusation.
Chievo said in a statement that Obi was “the object of an infamous and disgraceful phrase that has nothing to do with the most basic values of sport, ethics and respect”, alleging that Pisa player Michele Marconi used the phrase “the slave revolt” towards Obi in the first half of the 2-2 draw.
“Chievo regrets that a phrase heard by most on the pitch was not followed by any disciplinary action: neither by the referee, nor the assistant or fourth official, nor the federation delegate,” it added.
Pisa said the club “distanced itself” from Chievo’s statement, saying the alleged insult was not detected by match officials or the microphones around the pitch.
“Moreover, our player confirmed that he had not addressed any insults to the opposing player, let alone racially motivated ones,” it added.
Obi has spent most of his career in Italy, playing for Internazionale, Parma and Torino as well as Nigeria’s Super Eagles, reports The Guardian.  A 12-year-old boy has been arrested by police investigating racist messages sent to Crystal Palace forward Wilfried Zaha on social media. Zaha revealed he had received several abusive messages on social media before Sunday's trip to Aston Villa, a game they lost 2-0, reports the BBC. His manager Roy Hodgson called… July 12, 2020 In "Sports" Former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, has declared his support for Nigeria's former Finance Minister, Dr. Mrs Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala following her nomination for the post of Director, World Trade Organisation (WTO).   In a Statement, Obi stated that Okonjo-Iweala had the knowledge, skills, exposure and experience to successfully direct… July 19, 2020 In "News" F ormer Anambra State governor, Mr Peter Obi, has eulogized the Bishop on the Niger, Anglican Communion, Rt Revd Owen Chidozie Nwokolo and an elder statesman, Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, both of whom recently celebrated 53 and 91 birthdays, respectively. In a statement, Obi described Bishop Owen as a servant of… June 20, 2020 In "News"