*Gerrard’s side will top group by matching Benfica in next game
*Dundalk lose fifth straight match, Roma seal top spot in Group A Scott Arfield’s goal ensured Rangers  progressed to the last 32 of the Europa League with a 3-2 victory over Standard Liège.
Steven Gerrard’s side fell behind in the sixth minute at Ibrox to a close-range goal from Maxime Lestienne but hit back to equalise with a Connor Goldson header in the 39th minute.
Rangers enjoyed parity for barely a minute before Duje Cop put the away side back in front, again from close range.
There was still time in the first half for James Tavernier to make it 2-2, the captain scoring his ninth penalty of the season after Kemar Roofe’s shot was handled.
The second half had less goalmouth action before Arfield got on the end of Ryan Kent’s cut-back in the 63rd minute to secure the win for Rangers.
In the other match in Group D Benfica  beat Lech Poznan 4-0 at Estádio da Luz to draw level with Rangers on 11 points and make sure of their place in the knockout stages.
Rangers will top the group with their superior head-to-head record as long as their result in Poznan at least matches that of Benfica in Liège in the final round of fixtures.
In Group B Dundalk equalled an unwanted Europa League record by losing their fifth group game against Molde.
The 3-1 defeat means the Irish side are yet to pick up a point and have made the joint worst start to a campaign in Europa League history.
The breakthrough for the Norwegians came on the half-hour mark when Birk Risa’s cross from the left was cleverly headed in by Magnus Wolff Eikrem. Dundalk were made to pay again 11 minutes later for not stopping Risa getting balls in, this time Ohi Omoijuanfo on the end of the cross to nod in from close range.
The hosts had a penalty appeal turned down for handball and were denied by a fine double save from Gary Rogers but they did get a third in the 67th minute when Martin Ellingsen headed in from a corner at the far post.
They should have had a fourth, too, but substitute Mathis Bolly hit a post late on and Dundalk at least had the consolation of scoring the best goal of the night when Jordan Flores lashed a long-range shot into the top corner in stoppage time.
Roma secured top spot in Group A with a 3-1 home win against Young Boys thanks to goals from Riccardo Calafiori, Borja Mayoral and the former Manchester City forward Edin Dzeko.
Jean-Pierre Nsame had put Young Boys into the lead in the 34th minute before Mayoral’s equaliser just before half-time. With 14 minutes gone in the second half Calafiore’s spectacular equaliser, a left-footed shot that rocketed into the top corner from 25 yards, put Roma ahead and Dzeko volleyed in a third with nine minutes left.
RESULTS
LASK 3 – 3 Tottenham
Zorya Luhansk 1 – 0 Leicester
AC Milan 4 – 2 Celtic
Arsenal 4 – 1 Rapid Vienna
Molde 3 – 1 Dundalk
Rangers 3 – 2 Standard Liege
Royal Antwerp 3 – 1 Ludogorets
CSKA Moscow 0 – 1 RZ Pellets WAC
Feyenoord 0 – 2 Dinamo Zagreb
Red Star Belgrade 0 – 0 Hoffenheim
KAA Gent 1 – 2 Slovan Liberec
AEK Athens 2 – 4 Sporting Braga  *Napoli beat Rijeka while remembering Diego Maradona Rangers suffered another late collapse against Benfica as Steven Gerrard’s side missed out on the chance to plant one foot in the Europa League’s last 32. They looked to be on course for a famous scalp in what would have been the Ibrox club’s 150th European… November 27, 2020 In "Sports" Celtic let slip a two-goal interval lead to draw 2-2 with Lille in their thrilling Europa League Group H encounter at the Stade Pierre Mauroy. Neil Lennon’s side were under the spotlight after losing to Rangers and Milan, before drawing 3-3 with Aberdeen at Pittodrie on Sunday, but they raced into a two-goal lead through Mohamed… October 30, 2020 In "Sports" *Arsenal win, Leicester draw Jose Mourinho described Dele Alli as a "team player" after the out-of-favour playmaker's performance helped Tottenham to the brink of qualification for the Europa League knockout stage thanks to a 4-0 win against Ludogorets. Alli shone in a Spurs team that repeated the dominance they displayed… November 27, 2020 In "Sports"