 Canelo Alvarez unanimously outpointed previously undefeated Callum Smith to win the WBA & Ring super-middleweight championships and vacant WBC super-middleweight title Saturday night at the Alamodome.
Alvarez (54-1-2, 36 KOs) dominated his only bout this year, repeatedly hitting Smith (27-1, 19 KOs) with straight rights and right hooks to the head over 12 rounds, reports The Associated Press.
Two judges scored the bout 119-109 and the third had it 117-111.
At 5-foot-8, Alvarez was the aggressor against the 6-foot-3 Smith.
Alvarez previously knocked out Callum’s older brother, Liam, on Sept. 17, 2106, at AT&T Stadium in Arlington. Many speculated Callum wanted revenge for the ninth-round knockout, but Alvarez dominated the younger Smith as well.
Alvarez and Smith were fighting for the first time this year due to the restrictions brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic and the ring rust was evident in the first five rounds. It took nearly a minute before the first punch of the bout was thrown, a lunging right by Alvarez. Punches were sparse and the exchanges were brief in the opening round as both fighters shadowed each other.
Alvarez pressed the action in the opening seconds of the second round, forcing Smith to respond with rights to the head to keep Alvarez from continually stepping forward.
Smith jabbed with his left hand more in the third round, occasionally attempting a right uppercut that continually failed to land.
Alvarez landed a series of straight rights and right hooks to the head early in the fourth round that seemed to faze Smith. Alvarez had his most effective combination, landing a left hook to the side of the head, a straight right to the nose and another left hook that delighted the heavily partisan crowd.
Alvarez continued to effectively lunge and dig a right hand to the face between Smith’s gloves in the fifth round. Smith followed up a lunging blow to the stomach to set up a right hook that seemed to shake Alvarez. Smith landed a second right hook following that exchange.
After a rather uneventful sixth round, Alvarez landed a hard right uppercut that snapped Smith’s head back. Alvarez attempted to follow with another uppercut, but Smith sidestepped the attempt and missed an uppercut of his own.
Alvarez landed 60% of his power punches through seven rounds compared to just 20% by Smith.
Alvarez stuffed another hard right uppercut into Smith with about a minute left in the eighth round.  Rilwan “Babyface” Babatunde, on Friday, emerged the best boxer at GOtv Boxing Night 21, which held at the Rowe Park Sports Centre in Lagos. The West African Boxing Union welterweight champion went home with the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial Trophy and the N1 million cash attached to the prize.   Baby… November 29, 2020 In "Sports" Nigeria’s Israel Adesanya has defeated Brazilian Paulo Costa via TKO to retain the Middleweight Championship in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC 253). This is the 20th career MMA victory for the Nigerian-New Zealand UFC middleweight champion. When Adesanya vs Costa kicked off, there was less action in the first round as… September 27, 2020 In "Sports" Ajibade Olusesan The lucky punch came from his right hand which landed on Tom Bogs’ cheek and sent the Danish to his canvass, Nojeem Maiyegun knew he had just made history as the first Nigerian to reach the medal range in the Olympics Games. It was in the 1964 edition… October 1, 2020 In "Sports"