 Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi Ahead of the 2023 general elections, scores of supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at Udei in Guma, home of Governor Samuel Ortom Friday defected to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
The APC defectors were led by its chieftain, Hon. Michael Adyo who hails from Isherev axis of the local government.
Hon. Adyo hinged his decision to dump his former party on what he termed “its deceptive style of leadership in the state that has weakened the party and created a sense of hopelessness among its members”.
Adyo described PDP as the best political party for Isherev and indeed the entire people of the state, saying that they were happy to re-unite with Ortom and support him to continue to serve the state.
Governor Ortom, represented by the Commissioner for Lands, Survey and Solid Minerals, Hon. Bernard Unenge, promised equal opportunities for the defectors.
He assured people of the area that on-going projects in the area would be completed in recorded time to better the lives of the people.  CEPHAS IORHEMEN reports on the recent defection of some chieftains of major political parties in Benue State, particularly the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue State seems to be walking a tip rope ahead of the 2023… August 27, 2020 In "Politics" Ortom’s campaign DG leads PDP decampees   Former National Chairman of the now main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Barnabas Gemade, on Friday dumped the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and re-joined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).   The former senator, who represented Benue North East in the… August 2, 2020 In "News" Cephas Iorhemen, Makurdi Former National Chairman of the now main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Barnabas Gemade, on Friday dumped the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and rejoined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The former senator, who represented Benue North East in the upper chamber of the Next… August 1, 2020 In "Politics"