 Neymar appeared to be in tears as left the field on a stretcher after suffering an injury in Paris Saint-Germain’s 1-0 loss to Lyon on Sunday night.
Neymar was carried off the pitch seven minutes into stoppage time with a possible ankle injury following a poor tackle from Thiago Mendes, reports Sky Sports.
PSG have not confirmed the extent of the Brazil international’s injury.
It  is not the first injury for Neymar since signing for PSG. The 28-year-old has fractured his metatarsal twice since arriving in August 2017, and missed the 2019 Copa America after rupturing his ankle ligaments.
Mendes was sent off for the challenge but it did not affect the result as PSG dropped down to third in Ligue 1 after Tino Kadewere’s goal earned the visitors victory.
The French champions were never in the mix as they surrendered top spot in Ligue 1 to Lille, who claimed a 2-1 win at home against Girondins de Bordeaux earlier.
Lille have 29 points from 14 games, leading second-placed Lyon on goal difference with PSG on 28 points after their fourth defeat of the season.
Olympique de Marseille are fourth on 27 points with two games in hand, in a tight top five separated by three points.  Olympique Marseille earned a smash-and-grab 1-0 win at Ligue 1 champions Paris St Germain after forward Florian Thauvin struck in the 31st minute of a pulsating though ill-tempered match at the Parc des Princes on Sunday. Littered with fouls throughout, the clash boiled over in the last minute of… September 14, 2020 In "Sports" ...as Di Maria also lobbies Argentine teammate Paris Saint-Germain star Neymar talked to Lionel Messi over the phone on Thursday about the possibility of the Barcelona captain joining the French club, sources have told ESPN. Messi's future has become a considerable point of discussion after he shocked Barcelona by telling them he wants to leave on… August 28, 2020 In "Sports" Neymar has sealed an endorsement deal with Puma, the German company announced on Saturday, two weeks after the Brazilian superstar left his long-time sponsor Nike. “Welcome to the fam @neymarjr #KingIsBack” Puma tweeted alongside a photo of the Paris Saint-Germain striker, kitted out in the sportswear giant’s clothes. The… September 12, 2020 In "Sports"