 Taiwo Jimoh The organisers of the Aradhe Cultural Day, which holds in Isiko community of Delta State have said the festival is being organised in order to foster unity among the sons and daughters of the town.
The annual festival is also to promote the cultural heritage of Aradhe community.
According to the Planning Committee Chairman, Mr. Peter Agha in a statement yesterday, they want to used the festival as a unifying factor to bring sons and daughters of the community together under one umbrella.
“The festival is also to promote our heritage attires and to encourage sons and daughters of Aradhe in diaspora to visit home and participate in the development of the town.”
He added: “One of the cardinal objectives of the festival is to encourage our youths to participate in the festival and to also pass the baton over to them so that they can continue even when we are no more,
“We want them to see the importance of coming home and to develop our town to an enviable position, and to also promote the cultural heritage of our ancestral home. Because we have no other place we can call home, your home is your home.”
Agha said this year’s festival will take place on December 31 at Aradhe town.  The sleeping community of Aradhe in Isoko North Local Government Area of Delta State ended 2020 on a celebratory note as the community came alive and agog during it annual cultural festival, Aradhe Cultural Festival. The organisers of the event said the festival was to foster unity among the sons… January 23, 2021 In "Travel & Tourism" Bonded by a rich cultural heritage Okeaku and Nnesweoha new yam festivals of Ezza Ezekuna and Ikwo clans in Ebonyi State have continued to be a unifying force for the people, promoting their cultures and traditions, writes UCHENNA INYA The people of Ezza Ezekuna are the descendants of Ezekuna, the… August 13, 2020 In "Insight" Ezza Ezekuna and Ikwo clans of Ebonyi State have continued to use Okeaku and Nnesweoha new yam festivals as a unifying force to promote their cultures and traditions, writes UCHENNA INYA Uniting families A Dubai-based businessman and son of the clan, Paschal Oluchukwu Omaka, explained that Okeaku brings together all… August 20, 2020 In "Insight"