*Draw sets up Manchester derby in January
*Tottenham host Brentford in other semi-final Manchester United will host Manchester City in the semi-finals of the Carabao Cup after their 2-0 win over Everton on Wednesday night, while Tottenham, who beat Stoke 3-1 earlier in the day, will take on Championship Brentford at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium.
The ties will take place in the week beginning January 4, reports Guardian Sport.
The Manchester United captain Harry Maguire praised Edinson Cavani’s decisive goal in the win over Everton.
The defender told Sky Sports: “I thought it was an excellent performance, we started the game really well, we should have been leading after 20 minutes, we probably should have been out of sight, we had three or four great chances and we’ve got to be a little bit more clinical but we kept going and we kept digging in and I felt like another chance would come.
“Edinson has got a great finish and we managed to seal the win and go through to the next round which is the most important thing.”
On the goal itself, he added: “It was excellent, and on his weak foot as well. We know he does that, he does that week in and week out in training, he’s obviously had a little injury which has kept him out from the previous games so it’s good to have him back, it’s good to have him around the place. You can see what he’s about, he’s been a top striker throughout his career so he’s great to have around the place.”
Meanwhile, speaking further Maguire said Manchester United “have to start lifting trophies” after the Everton win.
“We are expected to win trophies,” said Maguire. “It’s important to reach these big games but we have to start winning them and lift some trophies for this club.
“It was an excellent performance and we should have been out of sight, we had three or four great chances. We need to be more clinical.”  ...as Spurs beat Stoke Late strikes by Edinson Cavani and Anthony Martial earned Manchester United a place in the Carabao Cup semi-finals at the expense of Everton. Cavani's stunning curling effort from 20 yards ended the hosts' resistance in front of 2,000 fans, just as the game looked set to… December 23, 2020 In "Sports" ...as Spurs beat Stoke Late strikes by Edinson Cavani and Anthony Martial earned Manchester United a place in the Carabao Cup semi-finals at the expense of Everton. Cavani's stunning curling effort from 20 yards ended the hosts' resistance in front of 2,000 fans, just as the game looked set to… December 24, 2020 In "Sports" Arsenal will host holders Manchester City in the Carabao Cup quarter-finals, with Manchester United heading to Everton. Tottenham face an away trip to Championship side Stoke City, while Brentford will host Newcastle in the club's first ever League Cup quarter-final match, reports Sky Sports. All of the last-eight fixtures… October 1, 2020 In "Sports"