The Federal Government has extended the deadline for the integration of National Identity Number (NIN) with the SIM registration database by six weeks, from December 30 to February 9, 2021.  The extension is to allow Nigerians yet to enroll for the NIN to do so. In addition, a three weeks extension has been granted to subscribers who already have their NIN to link same with their SIM, from December 30, 2020 to January 19, 2020.  This was announced by the National Task Force on National Identification Number (NIN) and SIM Registration after its meeting yesterday.  The meeting was chaired by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, with major stakeholders in the sector, including Chairman-NCC, EVC-NCC, DG-NITDA, DGNIMC, ECTS/ECSM-NCC, Chairman ALTON, CEOs of MTN, Airtel, Ntel, Glo, Smile, and 9Moble in attendance.    While noting that verification charges remain suspended during these extensions, the Task Force said NIMC has provided strategies to enable citizens to attend the registration in full compliance with COVID- 19 protocols – particularly the use of face masks, which remains mandatory and maintenance of social distancing.  Recall that the government had, last week, directed that all telecom operators in the country to update their SIM registration database with valid NIN of the subscribers.  The compulsory submission of NIN by subscribers, the government said, was to take place within two weeks, from 16th December and 30th December, 2020, after which unlinked lines would be blocked. This has, however, generated negative reactions from Nigerians even as  The Federal Government has extended the deadline for the provision of National Identification Number by telecommunication service subscribers. This was contained in a statement on Monday by the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. The statement titled, ‘Extension of Registration Period and Cancellation of USSD and Verification Fees’,… December 21, 2020 In "Top Stories" Samson Akintaro Sequel to its earlier directive to the mobile network operators to suspend sales and registration of new SIMs, the Federal Government has further directed that all subscribers in the country must provide valid National Identification Number (NIN) to update their SIM registration records.   The submission of NIN… December 16, 2020 In "News" The Federal Government has ordered all network providers to cancel the N20 charge for the retrieval of the National Identification Number (NIN) with immediate effect. Nigeria’s Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami gave the order in a statement issued on Friday. “The Minister’s directive which takes immediate effect… December 18, 2020 In "News"