 A federal appeals court on Thursday upheld a decision dismissing a lawsuit seeking to declare President Donald Trump won swing state Wisconsin.
Democrat Joe Biden defeated Trump by 0.6 points in Wisconsin in the November 3 election, a key victory that helped propel Biden to the White House, reports The Associated Press.
Trump filed the lawsuit in the Eastern District of Wisconsin on December 2 against the state elections commission, arguing the court should order the state’s Republican-controlled Legislature to declare he had won the state. U.S. District Judge Brett Ludwig, a Trump appointee, refused, ruling on December 12 that Trump’s arguments “fail as a matter of law and fact.” He said that ruling in Trump’s favor would amount to the “most remarkable ruling in the history of this court or the federal judiciary.”
Trump then turned to the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. A three-judge panel from that court affirmed Ludwig’s decision late Thursday afternoon, finding that Trump should have challenged the state’s election laws before the election. All three judges were appointed by Republican presidents. One of them, Michael Scudder, was appointed by Trump.
“Allowing the President to raise his arguments, at this late date, after Wisconsin has tallied the votes and certified the election outcome, would impose unquestionable harm on the defendants, and the State’s voters,” Scudder wrote.
Trump and his allies have suffered dozens of defeats in Wisconsin and across the country in lawsuits that rely on unsubstantiated claims of widespread fraud and election abuse.  US President Donald Trump has accused Democrats of voting "shenanigans" as the result from Tuesday's White House election hangs in the balance. His Democratic challenger Joe Biden earlier appealed for calm as the nail-biting count drags on in five states, reports the BBC. While clinging to wafer-thin leads in… November 6, 2020 In "News" A Pennsylvania judge threw out a lawsuit that sought to prevent the state from certifying the election results in favor of President-elect Joe Biden, who won the state by about 80,000 votes. U.S. Middle District Judge Matthew Brann in Williamsport, Penn., rejected a request by the Trump campaign for an… November 22, 2020 In "Top Stories" Trump launches lawsuits, says ‘he’s alive and well’ Democratic nominee, Joe Biden, has edged closer to winning the United States presidential election with unofficial results from several states in the country declaring the candidate as a potential winner. The former vice president was declared the winner in Wisconsin as President… November 6, 2020 In "News"