One of the most popular men of God around, Pastor Tunde Bakare, is not new to making statements that set the whole place agog. The pulpit orator has a record of making controversial statements.  The former Vice Presidential aspirant for some time has made headlines for speaking about his intention to become Nigeria’s president. Bakare, as a matter of fact categorically said he will be the next president after President Mohammadu Buhari.  Also, he’s believed to have made a cryptic swipe at Bola Ahmed Tinubu who is also perceived to be interested in becoming the president come 2023. It was, however, shocking to many when Bakare again turned around in defense of Tinubu, who has been under attack from his kinsmen over his ambition.  Bakare, in a viral video threw jabs at Yoruba leaders who he described as Shakabula Leaders (Ineffective leaders). Bakare eulogised Tinubu to high heavens, saying none of those who seek his destruction have great records as Tinubu.  He went ahead to describe Tinubu as an undisputed Yoruba leader. Bakare’s outburst has set tongues wagging and brought about a great debate across the country.  While some are applauding him, claiming he’s done the right thing, some are also attacking him, that he has no justification to sing Tinubu’s praises, having vilified him earlier. As it is, fingers are crossed as to see how the whole thing turns out.   Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has said he remained confident of succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023, if given the opportunity, but noted that his ambition is not a do-or-die. Bakare, who clocked 66 today, also called for the reinvention of a new Nigeria where… November 11, 2020 In "News" The Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, formerly known as Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has said his recent appointment as the inaugural Chairman, Advisory Council, African Office of the Royal Commonwealth Society, is a call to service for humanity. Bakare in a July 22, acceptance letter… August 1, 2020 In "News" …proposes one-year military training for NYSC members   The Serving Overseer of Citadel Global Community Church, formerly known as Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to adopt international legal standards to prosecute those who ordered armed soldiers to fire on innocent citizens at Lekki toll… October 26, 2020 In "News"