 Banned former FIFA President Sepp Blatter has revealed he has recovered from COVID-19 after testing positive last month.
Blatter, serving a six-year suspension from football for a “disloyal payment” he made to ex-UEFA President Michel Platini, told The Athletic he had contracted coronavirus in November.
The 84-year-old said he went to hospital in Switzerland after returning a positive COVID-19 test and underwent a two-week recovery.
“I was affected by the virus,” said Blatter, who was FIFA President for 17 years before leaving the post in June 2015 after the worldwide governing body was plunged into crisis with the arrest of several executives on suspicion of corruption.
“I was in quarantine for 14 days and now I’m back.
“I have no symptoms and I’m ready to fight again.
“It was three weeks ago.
“I had a cold and then I had a high temperature.
“It was just one night when I didn’t feel well.
“I had been in Zurich and when I got back to where I live I went to see my doctor.
“He immediately sent me to hospital and they tested me and said it was positive.
“But then I had no symptoms during the fortnight and I feel well.”  Former FIFA President Sepp Blatter does not see Africa hosting the Fifa World Cup anytime soon, and claimed that his support for the continent’s 2010 tournament hosting rights led to him being forced out of the Zurich-based organisation. After 17 years at the helm of FIFA, the Swiss football… August 9, 2020 In "Sports" Former FIFA president Sepp Blatter has called for his successor, Gianni Infantino, to be suspended by the global soccer body after criminal proceedings were opened against Infantino in Switzerland. Swiss authorities said on Thursday that proceedings had been launched against the current FIFA boss by a special prosecutor looking into… July 31, 2020 In "Sports" The raging COVID-19 pandemic has proved itself to be a social leveller. Since it touched the Nigerian soil in February, the pandemic has shown that it is no respecter of status, position, affluence and political power. WALE ELEGBEDE writes on state governors and their spouses already infected No doubt, the… July 8, 2020 In "Politics"