 South Korea has signed deals with Pfizer Inc and Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen to import coronavirus vaccines to cover up to 16 million people, as it grapples with the third wave of infections, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun told a televised briefing on Thursday.
The government has been facing growing public pressure over their COVID-19 vaccine procurement plans as the country struggled to contain a third wave of the pandemic, reporting its second-highest daily tally of cases on Wednesday, reports Reuters.
Pfizer’s two-dose vaccine, developed with German partner BioNTech, will be enough to cover for 10 million people and its shipment is expected in the third quarter of 2021
“We are mobilising the entire national capabilities to bring in the shipments within the second quarter,” said Chung. “The negotiation is underway.”
Chung said the doses from Janssen – J&J’s pharmaceuticals division – were added from the initial amount for 2 million people to 6 million and will be ready for inoculation from the second quarter.
The Pfizer and Janssen deals are part of a government plan to buy enough doses that will allow immunisation of 85% of South Korea’s population of 52 million.
Two other drugmakers of the four the country had secured the doses from are AstraZeneca Plc and Moderna Inc.
Doses for 10 million people would be procured through the global COVAX initiative, backed by the World Health Organisation.
The health authorities had said they would not rush inoculation to allow more time to observe potential side effects.
The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) reported 985 new coronavirus cases as of Wednesday midnight, bringing the nation’s tally to 53,533, with 756 deaths.
Authorities have shut down all ski resorts and winter tourist spots and banned gatherings of more than four in a bid to stop the spread during the Christmas and New Year holidays.  Moderna has been approved by the US government as the country's second Covid-19 vaccine, clearing the way for millions of doses to be released. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authorised the US-made jab about a week after approving a Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine which is now being distributed. The US… December 19, 2020 In "News" The New Zealand government signed a deal on Monday to buy 1.5 million COVID-19 vaccines from Pfizer Inc (PFE.N) and Germany's BioNTech (22UAy.F), with delivery potentially as early as the first quarter of 2021. The government did not disclose financial terms of the deal, its first vaccine purchase,… October 12, 2020 In "Health" Moderna Inc is planning to price its coronavirus vaccine at $50 to $60 per course, at least $11 more than another vaccine from Pfizer Inc and BioNTech, the Financial Times reported on Tuesday, citing unnamed sources. Moderna's proposed price for a two-dose course sold to governments compares with $39… July 29, 2020 In "Health"