 Chairman South East Governors Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief Dave Umahi has tested positive to the coronavirus (COVID – 19).  Some of his close aides also tested positive of the virus.  The governor made this known yesterday. Umahi disclosed that he and his close aides were not showing any symptom of the virus and that they have since isolated in line with NCDC protocols.  He directed his Deputy to take over the frontline coordination of the fight against the pandemic in order to protect the people of the state and urged them not to panic over the pandemic.  He appealed to the people to take the NCDC protocols more seriously.  Today, 4th July, my result and some of my close aides tests returned positive for COVID-19.  “My deputy takes over the frontline coordination of our determined fight against this pandemic to protect our people. “However, there are no regrets and nothing is to be feared as our people will not be abandoned at a trying period like now.  “I am working from home and all my meetings will be virtual. Soonest, we will all test negative and reunite. We bless the name of our God,” he said.  Meanwhile, Abia State government yesterday announced the recovery of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu who had earlier tested positive to the corona virus.  In a statement issued by the Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi, and obtained by the Sunday Telegraph, the Governor turned negative after the repeat test by the Nigeria Center for Disease Control proved him negative.  Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi has tested positive for coronavirus. The governor broke the news in a statement he personally signed on Saturday. The statement said the result of the test conducted by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) came back positive. Some aides of Umahi also… July 4, 2020 In "Top Stories" The raging COVID-19 pandemic has proved itself to be a social leveller. Since it touched the Nigerian soil in February, the pandemic has shown that it is no respecter of status, position, affluence and political power. WALE ELEGBEDE writes on state governors and their spouses already infected No doubt, the… July 8, 2020 In "Politics" It all began in February when Governor David Umahi led his lieutenants in the war against the ravaging Coronavirus pandemic, when some other leaders developed cold feet about it.   His first port of call was socioeconomic hotspots – banks, eateries, pharmacies, etc. with a precautionary message adherence to all… July 7, 2020 In "Opinion"