Glasgow Rangers Manager, Steven Gerrard, has expressed his happiness on the signing of Super Eagles star, Leon Balogun, from Wigan Athletic on a one year deal with the option of extending it for another year.  Gerrard believes Balogun’s arrival will create competition for places at the back, something the Liverpool legend is keen to see. “I’m delighted to get Balogun in because it’s another real strong option for us and he’ll challenge the people for the shirt and that’s what I want,” the former Liverpool skipper said.  “I want real competition for places because hopefully, that will bring the best and consistency out in individual players. “Leon has just finished a round of competitive fixtures with Wigan. So, he will hit the ground running. He’s a positive and bright character and we are looking forward to his influence around the group.”  Meanwhile, with Rangers’ continue search for a top striker, recently invited Super Eagles striker, Josh Maja, has been mentioned as a possible acquisition by the club. UK tabloid, the Sun reported that the Gers are ready to open transfer talks with Bordeaux in order to bring the player to Scotland as a replacement for want away Alfredo Morelos.  The Colombian could end up making the move to France in a stunning £18million deal as a replacement for Victor Osimhen who has reportedly joined Napoli for a record of 81 million Euros.  Charles Ogundiya Super Eagles duo of Leon Balogun and Joe Aribo, were some of the top performers for Rangers in their 1-0 win against Aberdeen in the opening game of the new Scottish League season on Saturday. Balogun proved fatigued was for the fainthearted as he impressed on his… August 2, 2020 In "Sports" Rangers have confirmed that they have signed defender Leon Balogun, following his release from Championship club Wigan Athletic. Balogun makes the move to Ibrox with a wealth of experience under his belt. Having spent most of his career playing in the top two tiers of German football, the 32-year-old signed… July 25, 2020 In "Sports" Nigeria international Leon Balogun trained with his new Rangers teammates for the first time on Tuesday. The 32-year-old joined the Scottish Premiership side on a one year contract with an option of an extension after leaving Championship side Wigan Athletic and becoming a free agent at the end the 2019-20 season, reports goal.com. Having… July 29, 2020 In "Sports"