*As Committee Chair recuses self from public hearing Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has appeared before the House of Representatives committee probing the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).
The minister got to the hearing room at 11:20am.
Akpabio was summoned by the house committee on NNDC after Joy Nunieh, a former acting director of the Commission, levelled some allegations against him on Friday.
Nunieh said during her time as head of the agency she was asked to spend N10 billion as Christmas bonus.
She said rejecting the idea contributed to her removal from office.
She alleged Akpabio hijacked the forensic audit of the Commission ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari.
“He (Akpabio) said the first thing I would do is to write a letter to him and he gave me the draft, that I should put it on my letterhead. In that letter, I was supposed to write about most of the companies; [That] senator Nwaoboshi owned the 98 companies,” she said.
Meanwhile, Hon. Tunji-Ojo Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Niger Delta probing the Commission has recused himself from the ongoing public hearing on the NDDC.  Joy Nunieh, former acting managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), says she slappped Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, for sexually harassing her. Speaking on Monday, during an interview on Arise TV, Nunieh said the incident happened at the minister’s guest house in Abuja. She… July 13, 2020 In "News" Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has stormed the residence of Joy Nunieh, former Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and 'freed' her from her 'house arrest'. Nunieh was scheduled to fly to Abuja on Thursday morning to attend a House of Representatives Committee hearing which… July 16, 2020 In "Top Stories" Officers of the Nigerian police force have stormed the residence of Joy Nunieh, former Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The security agents arrived at the residence located at 3, Owuru Creek view, off Herbert Macaulay Street, Old GRA, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, early Thursday… July 16, 2020 In "News"