Following report of bickering in the Iru Kingdom, the new king of Iruland, Oba AbdulWasiu yesterday said that the unification of the larger Oniru royal families and the economic prosperity of Iru land are his priorities. Speaking through his his Private Secretary,  Hakeem Akintoye Esq. ,the monarch said in a statement that as the new Oniru, he is not interested in mundane things amidst the reported bickering. According to Akintoye, the vision of the Oniru for Iru land is the continuous growth in leaps and bounds of the kingdom that remains one of the economic nerve-centers in Lagos. He stressed that the Oniru is not distracted at all and continues to urge all sons and daughters of Iru royal families to join hands with him towards the realisation of his vision for the kingdom. “There is no doubt that the future of Iru Kingdom continues to be bright and promising, the ascension of Oba Lawal marks the start of the next phase of the journey into that future with initiatives that would develop Iruland. Many parties are just uncomfortable with the fact that it is no longer business as usual,” Akintoye said He noted that under his kingship, the future of Iru Kingdom looks bright and promising, given such a rich leadership credential especially in the public sector that Oba Lawal has broughtto bear on the kingship. Akintoye added that the Oniru’s past performance as Commissioner under three administrations in the State and his legacy in the Ministries of Agriculture and Housing stood him out as one who will bring further positive transformation to the kingdom. Noting that the palace would not give room for division in the royal family, Akintoye assured that Oba Lawal would continue to adopt an open-door policy in directing the affairs of the kingdom. He pointed out that the Oniru would nonetheless not tolerate violence or disruption of law and order especially based on his experience as an officer of the law. The Private Secretary noted that the king has pledged to invest resources in projects that will promote cultural renaissance in Yoruba land as well as embarking on innovations that would engender economic development in the kingdom. Akintoye assured all  residents and members of Iru Kingdom of Oba Lawal’s commitment to unity and progress as promised during his installation as the 15th Oniru of Iruland on Sunday, June 7, 2020. “With my experience in public service, I will continue to work with others not only to bring more development to Iruland but the entire State. I promise to live the rest of my life for my people. I will work with fellow monarchs, chiefs, community leaders and all stakeholders for the unity of our people. I will project the Yoruba culture and tradition by promoting and sustaining our identity as a people. Consequently, I pledge to invest resources in projects that will promote cultural renaissance in Yoruba land. I will spare no sweat in guaranteeing the advancement of the Yoruba culture and tradition. I will work with various stakeholders to achieve this,’ Akintoye quoted Oba Lawal as saying.  ... as monarch unveils official royal insignia     On Sunday, Lagos, stood still for the coronation of the 15th Oniru of Iruland, His Royal Majesty, Oba Abdul-Wasiu Omogbahan Lawal, as dignitaries from all walks of life graced the colourful occasion. Muritala Ayinla reports     Call it a… September 9, 2020 In "City Life" Muritala Ayinla As part of the moves to cushion the negative impact of COVID-19 on the residents and enable them celebrate the Eid-El-Kabir, the Oniru of Iru Kingdom, Oba AbdulWasiu Gbolahan Lawal has commenced distribution of food items to 5,000 residents of the kingdom. New Telegraph learnt that the food… August 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Oniru of Iru Kingdom, Oba Abduwasiu 'Gbolahan Lawal Thursday cancelled his golden jubile birthday celebration earlier scheduled to hold on Friday July 24, 2020. Oba Lawal, in a statement signed by his private secretary, Hakeem Akintoye, a lawyer, said that the landmark birthday celebration is worth rolling out the… July 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"