Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) said 35 doctors had so far tested positive for COVID-19 since the virus manifested in Kwara State.  The state NMA Chairman, Dr. Kolade Solagberu, disclosed this while briefing journalists on Monday in Ilorin on events heralding the association’s 2020 Annual General Meeting (AGM). Solagberu, however, noted that the association had not recorded any casualty among its members.  The chairman cautioned residents to disregard the beliefs that COVID-19 was not real and was only a moneymaking avenue for the government. He said: ”Residents should help the doctors to help them by not paying unnecessary visits or consultations to hospitals.  ”For now, people should avoid visiting the hospital except for lifethreatening issues. ”We advise people to engage in e-health service instead of physical consultation to avoid contact as much as possible.  ”People should stop unnecessary visits to patients in the hospital. Those who follow a patient waiting to be attended to, are not encouraged for now.  “You should just help us to help you because the less the number of patients we attend to, the less the chances of spreading the virus.  “This is because every patient is a potential COVID- 19 case.”  The NMA chairman commended the Federal and state governments for the continuous closure of schools, adding that safety should be paramount until the coast is clear.  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that as at 7p.m. on Sunday, Kwara had 401 confirmed cases – 208 active, 179 discharged and 14 deaths.   No fewer than 102 health workers in Nasarawa State have been infected with coronavirus. The figure was among the 299 confirmed cases of the disease in the state.. Chairman of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) in Nasarawa State, Dr. Peter Umaru, disclosed this to newsmen in Lafia. He said 77… July 24, 2020 In "News" Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Lagos State, has urged the Lagos State Government to take advantage of the two weeks extension given by the Medical Guild in resolving all the outstanding issues which include the welfare of the medical professionals.   In a statement from the NMA, Lagos State, signed… July 1, 2020 In "News" CONTINUED FROM LAST WEEK In this concluding, JULIANA FRANCIS writes that cases of coronavirus have continued to create serious challenges in Nigeria’s public health sector On June 24, our reporter visited the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital. He got there by 10a.m l. and by 11a.m., a doctor had attended to… July 9, 2020 In "Insight"