 Pep Guardiola is confident Manchester City will overturn their Champions League ban.
City are expecting a judgement from the Court of Arbitration for Sport over their appeal against their expulsion from European competition on July 13.
The club were banned from UEFA competitions for two years by the European governing body in February after being found guilty of breaches of Financial Fair Play regulations, reports Sky Sports.
Their case was heard by CAS last month and the club have always been bullish about the potential outcome.
City boss Guardiola said: “We are ready. I have a lot of confidence and trust with the people that we will be allowed to play the Champions League, because we want to be on the field during these years.
“On July 13 we will know the resolution, hopefully, for the club – all the workers, players and everyone here, staff – to try to continue growing up as a club in the next years.”
Amid the off-field issues, City remain involved in this year’s Champions League competition, which is now due to resume in August.
City hold a 2-1 lead over Real Madrid after the first leg of their last-16 tie.
There is still uncertainty over where the return match will be played – the second leg will be played in Portugal if City are unable to host the game at the Etihad Stadium – but Guardiola is determined to be in the best possible shape for the game.
City may have surrendered their Premier League title to Liverpool but their form since football resumed after the Covid-19 stoppage has been good.
On Thursday they thrashed the new champions 4-0 and Guardiola feels that was a positive sign.
“Every game is different but I cannot deny beating Liverpool the way we did (was good),” said Guardiola, whose side travel to Southampton on Sunday.
“Football is about feelings, moments. Sometimes your mood is up, sometimes it is down when you face these games, but we can say we beat maybe the best team in the world right now. So we can do it.
“But every game is different, (FA Cup opponents) Arsenal play different, Madrid play different. Each game you have to adjust the qualities.
“What I want is to arrive in the best conditions possible to these games and after put mentality on the pitch.
“These games are not won with tactics or ideas, it is desire. We want to do it. When one team wants to do it – okay they can be beaten – but it will not be easy for the opponent.”  Manchester City bosses will step up plans to tie down Pep Guardiola to a new contract after winning their appeal against a European ban.   Etihad bosses were celebrating a huge win last night after overturning the two-year ban Uefa imposed on them for alleged breaches of FFP rules.  … July 14, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester City will play in the Champions League next season after club’s two-year ban from European football overturned this morning by the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS). CAS upheld Manchester City’s appeal against their two-year ban from European competition. Meanwhile, UEFA has reacted thus: “UEFA takes note of… July 13, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola says he has "ideas for the transfer market" and expects to "fight" for the Premier League title next season. Liverpool need five points to win the title after a 0-0 draw with Everton. But the Reds can clinch the title against Crystal Palace at Anfield… June 22, 2020 In "Sports"