 Secretary to the Osun State government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji, has tested positive for COVID-19.
The State’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Rafiu Isamotu, made this known in a press statement on Tuesday.
He also confirmed the discovery of 10 additional cases in the state, adding that one patient was discharged after testing negative for the virus.
The health commissioner also stated that with the latest development, the number of confirmed cases in the state has risen to 127 with 74 active cases.
He said: “Today, we intensified our enforcement drive. All those arrested were made to go through a compulsory course on Covid-19 preventive protocols.
“We will go a step further by setting up a mobile court to try and sentence violators of safety protocols and guidelines. We must collectively join hands with the government to contain the spread of the virus.
“Also, I want to confirm to you that our SSG and some of the staff around him have tested positive to the virus. But they are all in stable condition and are receiving adequate medical care.
“With the latest development, the number of our active cases as of today, Tuesday, June 30, is 74. We have 127 confirmed cases, out of which the State has successfully treated and discharged 48 patients while five deaths have been recorded.”  Secretary to the Osun State government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji, has tested positive for COVID-19. The State’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Rafiu Isamotu, made this known in a press statement on Tuesday. He also confirmed the discovery of 10 additional cases in the state, adding that one patient was discharged… June 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" There was uneasy calm in Delta State yesterday as Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and his wife, Edith, tested positive for COVID-19. Also, the Secretary to the Osun State Government (SSG), Prince Wole Oyebamiji, has tested positive for the virus. The Okowas tested positive barely a week after their daughter contracted the… July 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The raging COVID-19 pandemic has proved itself to be a social leveller. Since it touched the Nigerian soil in February, the pandemic has shown that it is no respecter of status, position, affluence and political power. WALE ELEGBEDE writes on state governors and their spouses already infected No doubt, the… July 8, 2020 In "Politics"