 The Ekiti government says it will begin to arrest those refusing to wear facemasks in public places from Monday.
The Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Wale Fapounda, on Sunday told newsmen in Ado Ekiti that there would henceforth be stiffer penalties for those who fail to comply.
The commissioner said Governor Kayode Fayemi was particularly worried about the deliberate lack of compliance with most COVID-19 regulations in the state.
He said the governor had ordered full enforcement of all other COVID-19 regulations in the state.
The commissioner cited some of the precautionary regulations ignored by residents to include compulsory wearing of face masks in public places and observance of social distancing.
He explained further that mobile courts had been established to try offenders and impose adequate sanctions such as fines and community service.
The commissioner further explained that commercial motorcyclists, as well as road transport workers whose passengers refused or neglect to wear face masks, would be held liable.
He reiterated the commitment of the Fayemi administration to the protection of human rights while enforcing the regulations.
According to him, the Ministry of Justice has already issued a directive ordering security agents to respect the rights of residents while discharging their duties.  One of the outstanding innovations in the response against COVID-19 world over was the grand innovation of the locally manufactured face mask by the Governor of Cross River State Sen Ben Ayade who started the no mask no movement in Nigeria. Following this drive, over 1.5 million mask have been… August 9, 2020 In "News" P lateau State Governor and Chairman of Northern Governors Forum, Simon Lalong, has directed the State COVID-19 Task Force to start arresting defaulters in six Local governments Areas of the state. The Local Government Areas are those with the highest prevalence increase of confirmed cases of COVID-19 who have disregarded… June 29, 2020 In "News" …to begin arrests of residents without facemasks Apparently dissatisfied with the rising cases of the coronavirus (COVID- 19) pandemic in the state, Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday hinted that schools would be reopened for exiting classes. The governor, who was apparently irked by the lack of commitment by… July 4, 2020 In "News"