 Muritala Ayinla Property worth billions of naira have been destroyed as fire gutted Ajao Estate Market in Oshodi-Isolo Local Government area of Lagos State.
Although the cause of the fire couldn’t be immediately ascertained, New Telegraph learnt that the inferno, that lasted for hours, caused serious damage.
It was gathered that the inferno began at midnight and threw residents in the buildings around the market into a state of panick.
The emergency responders in the state, including the Lagos State Fire Service, LASEMA and the Federal Fire Service had hectic time battling the inferno to prevent it from spreading to nearby residential buildings
Speaking on the incident, the Director General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Damilola Oke-Osanyintolu said the agency received a distress call at about 1:59 am, saying the entire market was already in flames when they got there.
He said: “The agency received a distress call at 1:59am via emergency help line 767/112 regarding a fire outbreak at the aforementioned location and immediately deployed its team to the incident scene. Upon arrival at the scene, it was discovered that the aforementioned market located inward Oshodi by Welcome Bustop was completely engulfed in flames.”
Osayintoku said that the Lagos State Fire Service, LASEMA fire team and the Federal Fire Service had to battle hard to prevent the inferno spreading to nearby residential buildings.
He added: “Initial investigations revealed that the fire started in one of the lockup shops, just before the main Ajao Estate Market before it extended to the main market due to an alleged electrical power surge.
“No life was lost and no injuries sustained,but a total of four shops were completely destroyed and properties and goods worth several billions of naira have been razed by the inferno.”
Osanyintolu urged to Lagosians, especially traders in the markets, to engage in safe electrical practices including switching off all electrical outlets and storing fuel properly.
The fire has finally been put out but the area has been cordoned off for safety reasons.  Property and goods believed to worth millions of Naira were destroyed yesterday when fire gutted Ajao Estate Market in the Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Area of Lagos State. Although the cause of the fire couldn't be immediately ascertained, New Telegraph learnt that several property and goods were in the inferno that… July 2, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ... Passengers feared dead as boat capsizes Muriatala Ayinla Tragedy struck in Ajao Estate area of Lagos State on Tuesday night when a gas cylinder exploded killing two people and leaving a number of others severely injured. As at the the time of filing this report, efforts were still on… July 28, 2020 In "Top Stories" ... Passengers feared dead as boat capsizes Muriatala Ayinla Tragedy struck in Ajao Estate area of Lagos State on Tuesday night when a gas cylinder exploded killing two people and leaving a number of others severely injured. The tragic incident occurred at Afariogun Street, Ajao Estate in Isolo and threw… July 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"