*AbdulRazaq visits, commiserates with media outfit Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin The Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Ilorin Area Office, was gutted by fire late Tuesday night.
Cause of the inferno, which affected the Administrative block, Marketing Department, News and Current Affairs Department as well the Programmes’ Department, was yet to be ascertained.
Meanwhile, Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has commiserated with the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) over the fire incident.
The Governor, who was reported to be among the first responders around 1a.m. on Wednesday, lamented the fire incident which could have destroyed the entire facility but for the timely intervention of the
combined efforts of Federal and the State fire services.
“We commiserate with the NTA over this unfortunate incident. But the bright side is that no life was lost. Also, the quick intervention of the fire services helped to save not just the facilities but the adjoining estate which could have been affected,” according to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor Rafiu Ajakaye.
“This incident again underscores the need for everyone to do more to prevent such in the future. We commend the alertness of those who quickly called the fire services and our firemen for their prompt response and professionalism. We will continue to do more to support not just the fire service but also all other emergency responders.
“Everybody must be more alert. Our fire service will continue to be proactive by not only putting out the fire but also educating the people. However, we urge citizens to also take serious interest in how to curtail fire incidents which are becoming rampant.”
The governor, however, commended the NTA staff for their professionalism and the balanced coverage of his administration’s activities.
“As an administration, we will also be willing to offer whatever support we can within the confines allowed under the ethics of the trade (journalism),” the statement added.  Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has commended the Federal Government for donating state-of-the-art firefighting equipment to the state. AbdulRazaq, who was represented by his Deputy, Mr Kayode Alabi, gave the commendation while commissioning a fire truck deployed at the Fire Service Training School, Ilorin, the state capital. He said the… June 25, 2020 In "News" The Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), came underintenseattacksin the Senate yesterday, over unsatisfactory submissions on operationalandrevenuedrive of the nation’s media outfit.   The NTA Director-General, YakubuIbnMohammed, was particularly taken up on the joint venture of the television station with Startimes for the past 11 years without declaring a single profit.  … August 25, 2020 In "News" A snail farmer and retired Deputy Director, Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Mr. Peter Ngbeken, has described snail farming as one of the most lucrative agro-businesses any business conscious individual could invest money in. Ngbeken, who is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), P.J Agro Farms Limited, Edo State,… July 2, 2020 In "News"