Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin, yesterday led his colleagues on a condolence visit to Senator Abiola Ajimobi’s family, extolling the virtues of the late two-term governor.  The lawmakers’ visit came barely 24 hours after Deputy Governor Rauf Olaniyan, was denied access to the eighth day fidau  prayers programme held in the Oluyole, Ibadan residence of the deceased.  Speaking during the visit, where they were received by the widow, Chief Florence Ajimobi, the Speaker noted that Ajimobi was a statesman with outstanding wisdom and intelligence, which gave him edge in governing the state and contributing to the nation’s politics.  He said: “As the helmsman of the state, the late Governor Ajimobi embarked on several infrastructural development across the state. “He was an amiable and humorous personality, and his positive impact on so many lives especially his political associates are evident.  “The Honourable members, staff of the Oyo State House of Assembly sympa thize with Her Excellency, Mrs. Florence Ajimobi, the children, entire Ajimobi family of Oja’ba in Ibadan, political allies, friends and the entire people of Oyo State on this irreparable loss.”  The widow appreciated the lawmakers, thanking them for the good gesture in honour of her departed husband.   … wife berates Makinde for playing politics with husband's death       T ears and encomium, yesterday, greeted the burial of a former Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, who died of COVID-19 on Thursday.     Ajimobi was laid to rest in his Oluyole, Ibadan residence at… June 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu, has described the demise of former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi as a huge loss not only to Oyo State but Nigeria in general. According to Kalu, the former Deputy National Chairman (South) of… June 28, 2020 In "News" ...Ajimobi'll be remembered for hard work, sense of humour - Amosun Kunle Olayeni, with Agency reports Professor Akin Abayomi, the Commissioner for Health in Lagos State, has revealed that former Oyo State Governor, Abiola Ajimobi, died from multiple organ failure due to COVID-19 complications. Ajimobi died on Thursday. In a… June 26, 2020 In "Top Stories"