T raders said that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has asked lenders to bid for forex at an auction 5 per cent above its official rate of N360, in a move to weaken the naira as the regulator seeks to unify its multiple exchange rates.  The Central Bank said last week it will work towards the gradual unification of exchange rates across all forex windows. It has operated a multiple rate regime which it has used to mask pressure on the naira and to absorb the impact of lower oil prices.   But dollar shortages have plagued the economy after a coronavirus-induced oil price crash slashed government revenues and weakened the naira currency, funneling demand to the black market where the naira is trading much weaker at 450 per dollar.  The CBN’s main supplier of dollars, depreciated the forex rate for retail interventions to N380 to the dollar from a previous rate of N360, traders said, quoting a message from the regulator to lenders.   The bank wants to unify rates to conserve its dwindling foreign exchange reserves which lost $8.5 billion to sit at about $36 billion in May due to an increase in imports from last year and demand from investors exiting Treasury bills.   With the rate move, the CBN has moved its retail auction for importers and individuals closer to the over-the-counter spot market widely quoted by investors and where the naira was quoted at 387.50 to the dollar on Friday.    Having successfully used the Investors and Exporters’ (I&E) foreign exchange window to stop the naira from crashing to a record low three years ago, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is clearly determined to use the same strategy to relieve the local currency of its current Coronavirus-induced pressures, writes Tony… July 1, 2020 In "Business" The naira stayed stable at N461/$1 on the parallel market yesterday, as traders appeared confused about whether the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) adjustment of the exchange rate at the official window by 5.54 per cent to N381 per dollar from N361/$ on Tuesday, meant that the apex bank had… July 9, 2020 In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has debited 26 lenders N216.1billion for failing to meet CRR (Cash Reserve Ratio) targets, Saturday Telegraph learnt yesterday. The move comes two weeks after the apex bank collected N459.7 billion from the same number of banks for also failing to meet CRR targets. In… June 20, 2020 In "Opinion"