LagosStategovernmentyesterday saidthatithadbannedmarketing activities around Oyingbo to ensure free flow of traffic in the area. The ban followed the partial closure of the Third Mainland Bridge forroutinemaintenancebytheFederal Ministry of Works. The state Environmental Sanitation Corps also known as KAI, whichdisclosedthis, alsoreiterated its readiness torid theOyingboaxis of any impediment mostly caused bytheactivitiesof foodstuff traders who mostly occupy major part of theroadforoffloadingandsellingof their produce resulting in gridlock aroundtheOyingbo market andthe Lagos Mainland environment.  The Corps Marshal of the agency, CP Gbemisola Akinpelu (retd), disclosed this at the Command Headquarters, Bolade-Oshodi. Akinpelu said the agency was poised to check activities that could impede free flow of traffic.  According to her, Oyingbo-Iddo via Carter Bridge is one of alternative routes to ease traffic movement into the Island during the repairs and as such, the agency operatives tagged Oyingbo Rescue Team, stationed in the area in the last three months to curb the activities of the recalcitrant traders, would be fortified to ensure significant improvement towards reducing, to the barest minimum, the activities of the tradersanddriverswhodisruptfree traffic movement around this axis.  Some Lagos residents are becoming apprehensive over planned pertial closure of the Third Mainland Bridge. The Lagos State government, in this regard has allayed fears, assuring residents that measures have been put in place to ease movement during this period. MURITALA AYINLA reports Ms. Bolanle Iyanda is a senior official… July 22, 2020 In "City Life" The partial closure of Third Mainland Bridge for repairs has actually thrown up roads rehabilitation competition in Lagos metropolis between the federal and state agencies. Dayo Ayeyemi reports     It is no longer news that the Third Mainland Bridge was partially closed for rehabilitation of its expansion joints, replacement… July 28, 2020 In "Business" The Federal Government, on Saturday, partially closed the Third Mainland Bridge, Nigeria’s busiest bridge, for rehabilitation works after site inspections for traffic architecture assessments.   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that work began at midnight of July 24 as workmen use crash barriers to barricade the outbound mainland… July 26, 2020 In "News"