Police have arrested 150 people for allegedly violating the curfew hours in Lagos State.
The police also impounded 10 luxury buses but arraigned the arrested 150 passengers.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Bala Elkana, said in a statement yesterday that on July 18, about 10:30p.m., policemen on enforcement of the curfew hours, intercepted 10 luxury buses with 150 passengers travelling out of Lagos to various destinations in the northern and eastern parts of the country.
Elkana said the drivers and passengers were arrested, while the buses were impounded. The violators were arraigned at the Lagos State Special Offences (Mobile) Court.
Meanwhile, the state Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, warned commercial vehicle operators and motor parks against movements during the curfew hours.
He also warned passengers against non-essential inter-state travels during the curfew hours.  Police in Lagos have, in the last one month, killed two suspected armed robbers and arrested 42 others, among them 15 traffic robbers. The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, disclosed this yesterday while briefing journalists at the command Headquarters, Ikeja. Odumosu said his men foiled 22 traffic robbery attempts… August 19, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Lagos State Police Command Tuesday said its operatives killed two suspected armed robbers and arrested 42 others including 15 traffic robbers within the last one month. It said 22 traffic robberies attempts were foiled and 10 assorted firearms, several ammunition, cutlasses, axes, charms and other dangerous items recovered from… August 18, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The outbreak of coronavirus in Nigeria brought unbelievable displays of human rights' violations and extortions among uniform personnel, with members of the public suffering the most. Motorists plying the Ikotun-Iyana- Ipaja, Ikotun-Igando and Ikotun- Ejigbo routes, all in Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos State, accused the policemen attached to… July 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"