Community leaders in Umuiye Umumba Nsirimo autonomous community in Umuahia South Local Government Area of Abia State have handed over a man, Mr. Okwubunka Nwosueke, to the police for allegedly defiling his 13-year-old niece.  Narrating the incident to New Telegraph, one of the the community heads of Nsirimo, Chief Michael Irom, said when the community received the news the people quickly “reported to Ubakala Divisional Police Station in Umuahia South Local Government Area and the girl was quickly examined by a female police officer who established a case of rape.  The girl was then taken to a hospital on Aba Road, Umuahia for treatment.” Irom explained that the community invited the alleged rapist to state his own side of the story which he denied and began threatening everybody.  He added that before the arrival of the police to arrest Okwubunka, the suspect ran away from the community.  The community leader said to their shock, the suspect appeared on July 22, 2020 about 5a.m. with a team of policemen from the Central Police Station (CPS), Umuahia to arrest Mrs. Daberechi Nwosueke, the mother of the victim and his (Irom’s) Personal Assistant, Uchetorouba Irom. He said the community was shocked by Mrs. Nwosueke’s arrest, and demanded to know how a traumatised woman, looking for justice for her raped daughter, would be arrested by the police.  Police in Abia State have arrested two ladies for allegedly belonging to a gang of armed robbers. The ladies, Nancy Chris and Obinna Chika, were part of 47 suspects apprehended for different crimes. They were paraded yesterday at the state Police Command Headquarters in Umuahia. However, Nancy and Obinna, both… September 3, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Governor Dave Umahi yesterday urged the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Abubakar, to remove Ebonyi State from Zone 13 Headquarters of the Nigeria Police, in Anambra State. Umahi said the state could not belong to Zone 13 and should be allowed to be in Zone 9, Umuahia, Abia State where… August 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Suspect not known to us, says union   A suspected serial rapist, Hope Chidiebere, has claimed to be the secretary of the Scripture Union, Port Harcourt, Rivers State.     The suspect was nabbed for allegedly defiling a six-year-old girl. Chidiebere, who was hired by the parents of the victim… July 7, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"