 Anthony Joshua is one of the most successful boxers in the world – but nothing is more important to him than family.
The two-time world champion has earned an estimated £61million during his glittering career, reports mirror.co.uk.
Despite his immense success and vast wealth, the Olympic gold medallist spends little of his fortune on himself and instead prefers to spend it on those he loves.
The Watford-born fighter has shelled out for lavish homes, all expenses paid luxury trips and the best wheels money can buy for those who have helped him get to the top.
Family is the number one priority for the British boxing legend – and no one is more important to AJ than his young son, Joseph Joshua, AKA JJ.
Joshua has been spending lockdown in the home he bought for himself and his devoted mum, Yeta, and even invited his niece and cousin to move in so they could all be together.
AJ said: said: “We are all aware there is a pandemic happening across the world but fortunately none of my family have had any tragic losses or massive effects from the virus.
“We are trying to take advantage of spending time together.”
And one of the most special things for the fighter is spending quality time with four-year-old AJ in lockdown.
Although he admits to facing the same struggles as millions of other parents across the UK when it comes to home schooling.
He told The Sun: “I started off as super-dad and then that slowly went out the window and to be honest he’s watching way too much TV now.
“The only thing he wants to do is watch Paw Patrol and Ryan’s World – there’s no way you’d get him watching Joe Wicks.”
And despite being one of the most famous men in the country, to little JJ Joshua is simply dad.
The world beater said: “At home he doesn’t really think of me as a famous boxer or anything like that. I’m not a superstar and he doesn’t think so either. He knows I fight but that’s all.
“I always keep that stuff away from home. I’m not like that at home – and I’m not even like that when I go out, really.”
AJ has always taken his responsibilities as a father seriously.
After he and JJ’s mum, Nicole Osbourne, separated he made sure she was well looked after and bought her a £500,000 penthouse in North London.
JJ is also a regular on his dad’s Instagram feed, with the proud dad sharing adorable posts about how much he adores his young son.
But when it comes to JJ following in his famous dad’s footsteps, it’s a definite no/no from the boxer.
He explained: “No it’s too hard. It’s a dangerous sport. I want my son to be the best man that he can be, but I don’t want him to be compared to me.
“You’re not going to be a boxing star without going through heaps of pain.
“Life is not a highlight reel. A career is not a highlight reel. People see the glamour, the winning.
“Nobody’s interested in the knocks and bruises, the bad eye, the struggle. My son has the bloodline for it, there’s no doubt about that.”
So it seems little JJ will have to find his own way in the world – but whatever happens he’ll have his dad’s full support. 