  The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has stated categorically that there has been no election into the executive committee of the Anambra State Football Association.
Chairman of Chairmen of Nigerian Football, Alhaji Ibrahim Gusau minced no words in declaring that what took place in the state on Monday, July 27 and which some stakeholders styled ‘an election’ was a charade of very low grade, and the NFF would never recognise such a sham.
“That was an act of brigandage and the NFF fully dissociates itself from it. The Electoral Committee sent to the NFF a letter which they received from the Anambra State COVID-19 Task Force, requesting that the elections into the State FA and the local football councils be postponed, in line with the situation in the country, as the ban on sporting activities and mass gatherings was still alive.
“The same Electoral Committee issued a press statement on Monday,  July 27 informing the general public that the elections would no longer hold, and regretted the inconvenience that the sudden postponement may have caused the candidates, delegates, observers, stakeholders and the general public.
“In view of these, it is incomprehensible how anyone could have gone ahead with the charade they are calling ‘election’, and you begin to wonder who actually conducted the so-called election,” Gusau said on Tuesday.
Gusau, who is also a Member of the NFF Executive Committee, stated further: “That was an affront on the government and the NFF will never be part of it. The Anambra State COVID-19 Task Force made it clear that there should be no such gathering. It is irksome, and let it be said without ambiguity that the NFF does not recognise such a sham and it cannot stand.”  The major setback in the development of football in Nigeria has been how the administrators can put round pegs in round holes. Taking the right decisions at the right time is crucial, just as focusing on the right things to be done duly. We are very sure that football has… August 6, 2020 In "Editorial" Football in Nigeria has potential for growth looking at the talent, skills, achievements at youth level and the energy of budding stars. The major setback in the development of the game in Nigeria has been how the administrators can't seem to get things right. Taking the right decisions at the… August 1, 2020 In "Sports" The President of the Nigeria Football Federation Amaju Pinnick has been accused of using his position to settle political scores with Ifeanyi Ubah after the NFF cancelled the election that returned the Senator as the Chairman of the Anambra State Football Association. The NFF nullified the election, citing the failure… August 7, 2020 In "Sports"