 Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, who lost the governorship primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accepted defeat saying that he contested many forces in the election.
The 2016 governorship candidate of the party, Eyitayo Jegede defeated Ajayi in a keenly contested election polling 888 to Ajayi’s 657 votes.
However, reacting to the outcome of the poll, Allen Sowore, the Media Adviser to Ajayi, said in a statement that: “The people have spoken, and we accept the outcome in good faith, knowing fully well that it was a race against different forces.
The statement was entitled: ”We fought a good fight”.
It reads: ”Following the outcome of the Primary election of our party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), held on 22nd July 2020, where Eyitayo Jegede SAN, was elected winner, we wish to thank the good people of Ondo State for standing with us in the struggle to liberate our State.
“The people have spoken, and we accept the outcome in good faith, knowing fully well that it was a race against different forces.
“We remain undaunted and resolute about our commitment to a people-oriented government against personalised democracy.
“We wish the good people of Ondo State and the winner the best as we March on. For us, life goes on.”
Meanwhile, announcing the result early this morning, the chairman of the Primary Election Committee and Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwanyi declared Jegede the winner of the contest.  Adewale Momoh,  Akure Eyitayo Jegede (SAN) has emerged the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who will be flying the party's flag in the October 10, 2020 governorship election in Ondo State. Jegede defeated the embattled Deputy Governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi and six other aspirants… July 23, 2020 In "Top Stories" With about 3,000 delegates set to participate in today's governorship primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ADEWALE MOMOH writes on the intrigues employed by the gladiators towards outwitting each other   As the Ondo State October 10, 2020 governorship election draws near intense politicking and maneuvering have no doubt… July 22, 2020 In "Politics" With 72 hours to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primaries in Ondo State, ADEWALE MOMOH writes on the recent doctoring of delegate's list which was overturned by the Alhaji Ibrahim Dankwambo Appeal Committee and other issues surrounding the exercise   The race to the Alagbaka Government House ahead of… July 19, 2020 In "Politics"