Chief Judge (CJ) of Kaduna state, Muhammad Lawal Bello, yesterday disclosed that not less than 15 rape cases were being recorded in the state on a daily basis. Bello spoke at the annual Law Week organised by the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Kaduna branch.  The CJ also decried the alarming rate of rape of children, declaring that most of the victims were children within the ages of three months to 12 years.  According to him, cases of rape are rising in the country and Kaduna State is no exception as the state records between 10 and 15 cases per day.  He said: “The situation is becoming rampant that victims are mostly little boys and girls within the ages of three months to 12 years old. “  The rate at which children are being defiled is alarming and more needs to be done to curtail this issue before it gets out of hand.”  Bello also pointed out that the coronavirus pandemic had forced the judicial system to improvise “in ensuring cases do not linger in courts”.  According to the CJ, the state government has acquired the necessary equipment for court hearings to be held online.  From time immemorial, women have been perceived as weaker vessel. Thus, many believe women are oppressed and subjugated under oppressive cultures in most African societies. Oluwatosin Omoniyi writes There have been outrages against incessant rape incidences recently. Although, rape cases have not dwindled in reports and statistics, the major problem… June 19, 2020 In "Feminique" The month of May and June, 2020 will forever remain in the memories of Nigerians, who are prone to monitoring security issues and human rights violations. The months witnessed the senseless killings and rape of some Nigerians, especially young folks. However, it was escalating cases of rape that captured the… June 19, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" …you can tell your story without mentioning names –Sociologist Maimuna Aliyu’s world shattered after her three months old daughter, Rukaya, was raped, leaving the baby battling to stay alive. She had heard of children being raped in the Adogi Community in Lafia Local Government of Nasarawa State, where she lives… July 11, 2020 In "Investigation"