The coronavirus (COVID- 19) cases in Enugu state has risen to 15 from 12. But with treatment and discharge of six patients, Enugu will now have nine active cases. The state Ministry of Health in a statement signed by Commissioner for Health, Obi Emmanuel Ikechukwu and made available to journalists in Enugu yesterday announced that the state had received three new results of patients, who had tested positive for the virus. The Commissioner disclosed that two more cases of the previously active COVID-19 cases, who had undergone treatment in the state and tested negative were being assessed for discharge from the isolation and treatment centre. He said: “This means that Enugu State has had 15 cases in all, with nine active cases and six cases discharged after testing negative. “The two cases that have tested negative are case number 5 and her daughter who is case number 9. “The 3 new positive cases, who entered Enugu State illegally during this ban on inter-state transportation, are as follows: “Case 13 is a 25 year old man from Ondo State who lives in Lagos and made his way first to Akwa Ibom, then to Rivers State and finally to Obollo Afor in Udenu LGA of Enugu State, all within the period of closure of all land boundaries and inter-state movement. He developed symptoms while at Obollo Afor, the health authorities were alerted, he was tested and his result came out positive. “Case 14 is a 38 year old male, from Okpuje in Nsukka LGA, who lives in Nassarawa State, and found his way back to Enugu State during the same period of lockdown. “He was tested and his test result also came back positive. “Case 15 is a 28-year-old female and a widow who hails from Igbo-Etiti Local Government Area, Enugu State and lives in Lagos State with her husband. “She recently lost her husband in Lagos and was able to smuggle her husband’s corpse back to Enugu State for burial despite the lockdown in Lagos State and the national ban on inter-state movement. “Her actions raised suspicion and the health authorities were alerted. She was subsequently tested and her result came back positive.”  