T he welfare of players has always been a key subject of discuss in Nigerian football scene. Active players home and abroad and retired ones battle to maintain good lifestyle for themselves and immediate family members. Despite receiving huge weely wages in their respective clubs, most of them struggle to make ends meet, especially for their families. We are aware that lack of good education is a major factor militating against these players as most of them do not have full complement of staff to assist them as they grow in their career like their colleagues abroad.   For example, we expect every Super Eagles’ player to have a financial adviser, image maker, personal doctor and a psychologist, but this is not the case. They only have agents who run their lives for them in all aspects. In most cases, we believe these agents also give the players advice based on their own selfish interest.   For those retired, we are aware of those who find it difficult to make ends meet for their immediate families. The case is even worse for the dead former internationals as their dependents suffer in most cases despite the fame and fortunes of the former stars in their lifetime.   Many Nigerians believe these national heroes should be well taken care of while alive and their families taken care of after their demise, but truth is that the players should also invest well to prepare for their tomorrow.   For example, after long years of neglect, there was respite for the mothers of Rasidi Yekini and the mother of Samuel Okwaraji. Yekini died eight years ago, while Okwaraji died in 1989.    We commend the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, for this brilliant initiative, which we hope would continue henceforth, not only for these mothers, but other families of our former legends.  Last week, Mrs. Sekiratu Yekini was placed on a monthly stipend by the Ministry of Sports.   The minister, who was represented by Olaitan Shittu in Ijagbo, near Offa in Kwara State, donated food stuffs and provisions as well as N50,000 cash to Yekini’s mother. It was not the first time the minister was reaching out to Mrs. Yekini as he was also at her residence in September 2019 to make similar donation.   Responding, Yekini who spoke in Yoruba, thanked the minister for his kind gesture. “I have been abandoned for a long time and have not got help from anyone.   “I was hospitalized for days, some months ago and catered for myself despite scarce resources, even last month, I received treatment at the hospital. Since my son died, life has been very tough,” she said. Similarly, the minister was represented by Bamidele Ajayi at the home of the late Okwaraji in Abakpa-Nike in Enugu State to donate various food stuffs and provisions as well as N50,000 cash.   The other items donated include rice, Semovita and beverages. The minister explained that the gesture was to assist the mother in her old age as a mark of honour for the contribution of the formera Dinamo Zagreb forward to Nigerian football.   At the weekend, the Sunday Dare-led Ministry of Sports also got in touch with the mother of late former athletics star, Sunday Bada. The mother of the late Olympic Games gold medallist was located at Odomogun quartes, Ilaere Ogidi in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State. Mrs. Funmilayo Bada got a soul lifting gift of N50,000 and food items.  Mrs. Bada expressed gratitude to the minister for lending support to her, especially on mothers’ day (Sunday May 10). She was particularly happy that Dare deemed it fit to assist her years after the passage of her son. We recall that Bada died on December 12, 2011. There are plans too to locate the family of late former Flying Eagles captain, Ali Jeje, somewhere in the north.   We, again, commend the moves of the Ministry of Sports in putting smiles on the faces of the families of the fallen heroes. The mandate handed over to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to place the mother of Rashidi Yekini and Samuel Okwaraji on monthly stipends is a right move. We charge the ministry to extend this to Ali Jeje’s mother and to also mandate the Athletic Federation of Nigeria to do same for Bada’s mother.    This is a new dawn in Nigerian sports with the welfare boost given to the mothers of the fallen athletes, just as current athletes were also given palliatives of N50,000 each in this trying moment of COVID-19 following the global lockdown.   It is however essential to stress that athletes should be wise enough to prepare for the future in their active years. Current athletes are very rich and should invest well both at home and abroad to make their future bright for themselves and their families.   