The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has suspended its rules supporting the trading of spectrum by telecommunications operators in the country. The commission said this decision was taken in line with the country’s National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020 – 2025, which requires that the process be reviewed. Spectrum is a scarce commodity, which when inefficiently utilised, greatly limits broadband coverage and speeds. The current spectrum trading guidelines were developed in 2018 after industry- wide consultations and it allows that the spectrum resource be traded on the secondary market through transfer, sharing or leasing upon satisfying stipulated regulatory conditions. However, the commission, in a statement released yesterday, said its Board of Commissioners, after a recent meeting, decided that the guidelines should be suspended. “The Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP) 2020 – 2025 launched by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, in Abuja in March 2020 requires that these guidelines be reviewed to ensure that unutilised spectrum is fairly traded and to facilitate rollout by other operators amongst others. This is to address the need for ubiquitous broadband deployment to accelerate penetration and access in line with the economic agenda of the Federal Government,” the statement read. “In accordance with the NNBP 2020 – 2025, for optimal use of spectrum, licensees have the obligation of the Use it or Lose It Policy because idle high demand spectrum does a disservice to poorly served populations and should be released for effective use as may be required to promote efficient use of assigned spectrum. The ‘Use it or Lose it’ rule should, therefore, apply in all instances where assigned spectrum is found to be non-utilized or underutilized and ensures unutilised spectrum is fairly traded to facilitate rollout by other operators. “In response to the need for the review of these guidelines as highlighted above, and also following Paragraph 12 of the Spectrum Trading Guidelines, 2018 which vests the commission with the right to review/vary and modify these Guidelines from time to time as it may deem fit, the Spectrum Trading Guidelines 2018 application in Nigeria is hereby suspended until further notice, as declared by the board,” the commission stated.  