*Pentagon puts military police on alert The Los Angeles Police Department has asked downtown Los Angeles residents to stay inside and for all businesses to close due to the escalating protests in the city.
“We have declared an unlawful assembly throughout downtown LA,” the department said in a statement Friday. The areas impacted are from the 10 Freeway to the 101 Highway and the 110 Freeway to Alameda.
“This is being made following repeated acts of violence & property damage,” LAPD said. “Those on the street are to leave the area.”
The department previously asked people to avoid downtown Los Angeles Friday, including nearby side streets and freeways, reports ABC News.
And Georgia Governor Brian Kemp announced Friday night that he has issued a State of Emergency for Fulton County, where protests have turned violent in downtown Atlanta. He also announced that he’s activating 500 Georgia National Guard members.
“At the request of Mayor @KeishaBottoms & in consultation with public safety & emergency preparedness officials, I have issued a State of Emergency for Fulton County to activate as many as 500 @GeorgiaGuard troops to protect people & property in Atlanta,” Kemp tweeted Frida.
He said the troops would deploy immediately to help local and state law enforcement officials get control of the “unlawful activity” and to “restore peace.”
“We will continue to make all state resources available to local leaders during this emergency situation,” he said.
In a related development, protests over the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis erupted Friday night in Brooklyn where there have been at least 150 arrests, police sources told ABC News.
The protest outside Barclays Center, the home of the NBA’s Brooklyn Nets, began peacefully, but drew what police sources described as professional agitators and turned ugly.
There were more than 100 protesters detained outside the arena, mainly for throwing bottles and other disturbances.
Protesters moved toward two police precincts in northern Brooklyn, the 88th Precinct in Fort Green and the 79th Precinct in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Along the way, a police van was set on fire and several cruisers were defaced with graffiti and broken windows.
Some 500 demonstrators massed outside the 88 Precinct, where the van was set on fire. There were about 40 arrests there.
Some demonstrators made it inside the 79 Precinct but were immediately arrested
There have been about a dozen officers hurt so far in clashes with the protesters.
Meanwhile, as unrest spread across dozens of American cities on Friday, the Pentagon took the rare step of ordering the Army to put several active-duty U.S. military police units on the ready to deploy to Minneapolis, where the police killing of George Floyd sparked the widespread protests.
Soldiers from Fort Bragg in North Carolina and Fort Drum in New York have been ordered to be ready to deploy within four hours if called, according to three people with direct knowledge of the orders. Soldiers in Fort Carson, in Colorado, and Fort Riley in Kansas have been told to be ready within 24 hours. The people did not want their names used because they were not authorized to discuss the preparations. 