Advice Rule-based fiscal stimulus is effective when rates cannot be cut further  As countries around the world continue to reel under the devastating impact of the coronavirus(COVID-19) pandemic, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has advised advanced economies to adopt rules-based fiscal stimulus in dealing with future downturns.   The fund stated this in a new blog post by its researchers, which was posted on its website yesterday.  According to the IMF researchers, an analysis they carried out before the virus outbreak had shown that “rulebased fiscal stimulus—where the stimulus is automatically triggered by deteriorating macroeconomic indicators—can be highly effective in countering a downturn,” in many advanced economies where interest rates are at record lows and public debts at historical highs.  The researchers stated:”With interest rates at or near zero in advanced economies, the scope for further conventional rate cuts is limited.  But central banks may still use unconventional monetary policy tools more intensively—like largescale asset purchases—to deliver additional support, as they have recently in response to the pandemic. However, relying on monetary policy alone to respond to shocks might not be enough and also raises questions about side effects on future financial stability and threats to central bank independence.  “While keeping an eye on debt sustainability concerns over the long term, fiscal policy needs to play a larger role.   Putting in place more automatic fiscal responses in advanced economies could help build their resilience to future adverse shocks. If rules for fiscal stimulus are well communicated and established before shocks occur, they can help shape expectations and reduce uncertainty, thereby dampening the drop in activity once a negative shock materializes.”  Specifically, they disclosed that their findings found that “rule-based fiscal stimulus measures—such as temporary targeted cash transfers to liquidity-constrained, lowincome households that kick in when the unemployment rate rises above a certain threshold— could be highly effective in countering a downturn caused by a typical demand shortfall.”  Furthermore, the researchers noted that “rule-based fiscal stimulus is particularly effective when interest rates are at their effective lower bound (when rates cannot be cut further) and discretionary fiscal policy lags are long,” adding that: “fiscal stimulus after demand shocks tend to be especially powerful when the economy has unemployed resources and monetary policy is accommodative.”  