FELIX NWANERI writes on the bill for the establishment of an Electoral Offences Tribunal before the Senate, which when passed into law, will take off the burden of prosecution of electoral offences suspects from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  O ver the years, there have been calls for the establishment of a separate agency outside the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and saddle it with the responsibility of prosecuting electoral offenders.   The belief among advocates of such measure was that it will not only curb violence before, during and after elections, but that it will fast track the prosecution of offenders to serve as deterrent to those who subvert the electoral process. While some stressed the need for the establishment of an electoral offences tribunal that would be mandated to try electoral offences,  others called for the amendment of Section 59 of the Electoral Act which gave the power of arrest and prosecution of electoral offenders to INEC, thereby excluding security agencies.   According to those who hold this view, security agencies usually see the said section of the Act as an excuse for doing nothing, when electoral crimes are committed even in their presence. They further pointed out that the prosecution of electoral offenders and others who commit crimes related to elections remains a sore point in the electoral process and its direct consequence is that the most Nigerians have lost interest in the electoral process as very few people would want to go to the polling units to be maimed or killed by political thugs.   It was further argued that electoral impunity are responsible for the emergence of administrations that are illegitimate and as a result do not command the confidence of the people and that of the international community as well as leads to political and economic instability as those robbed of their victory may employ legitimate and illegitimate means to overturn the such elections.  Senate rises to the challenge It is against the backdrop of rising cases of electoral violence during recent poll that many have commended the move by the Senate to pass a bill for the establishment of an Electoral Offences Commission and Tribunal.   The bill, sponsored by Senator Abubakar Kyari (APC, Borno) passed second reading recently. With seven parts and 35 clauses, it proposes among others, a jail term of 20 years or fine of N40 million for any candidate, person or agent who destroys electoral materials during elections.  It also seeks to prohibit hate speech or words that incite violence during elections and proposes 10 years or a fine of at least N40 million or both for offenders. It equally proposes a term of 15 years on anyone found guilty of destroying, snatching or opening a ballot box, when he or she is not authorized to do so.   The bill further proposed a 20-year jail term without an option of fine for a judicial officer or officer of a court or tribunal, who is found guilty of corruptly preventing electoral justice, before, during and after elections.   Some senators, who bemoaned flaws in the Electoral Act, leading to massive rigging in the 2019 general election, were of the view that the scandalous scale of electoral malpractices bedeviling the country’s electoral process could better be described as a war situation.   Consequently, the lawmakers cautioned that unless concrete actions are taken to save the country from violence associated with elections, the electorate will continue to have wrong people in government.   Kyari had said in lead debate that establishing the commission to complement the role of Election Tribunal would solve the problem of electoral violence and guarantee free and fair electoral process as electoral crimes help election riggers and offenders take control of government against the will of the people.   Senate President, Ahmad Lawan and others, in their contributions, called for punitive penalties for electoral offences. They added that the commission should exist along with a special tribunal to prosecute electoral offences, sanitise the electoral process, deepen Nigeria’s democracy and bring an end to impunity associated with elections.   Senator Sarajudeen Ajibola Basiru (Osun Central), who seconded the motion that the bill be read the second time, said that it was part of the legislative agenda of the Ninth Senate that elections must be free, fair and credible as well as devoid of interference and rigging.   He urged his colleagues to read the Uwais committee’s recommendations on electoral matters, adding that the bill should add criminal adjuration for prosecution to be within a period of time.  Nigeria and electoral violence   Nigeria has a history of electoral violence. Out of the 10 general elections the nation had conducted since independence – 1964/1965, 1979, 1983, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019  – only that of 2015 could be said to be violence-free. However, the gains of that poll was eroded in the last general election given the violence that marred the governorship elections in some states, particularly Rivers State and the subsequent off season governorship elections that held in Bayelsa and Kogi states late last year.   While the 2007 elections was described by both local and foreign observers as one that cast a harsh light on patterns of violence, corruption and outright criminality that have characterised Nigeria’s political system, the post-election violence, which trailed that of 2011, although it was adjudged a sharp departure from the past, nearly drove Nigeria to the brink.   By the time the dust settled, several lives were lost and properties worth billions of naira destroyed in the northern part of the country. Among those caught in the crossfire were members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), employed by INEC as ad hoc staff. Kaduna State and Kano states, which were the worst hit by the crisis, had thousands of persons displaced.    Need to punish electoral offenders   Given that most electoral offender usually escape the long arms of the law, analysts have over the years insisted that prosecution of election offenders should not be left with INEC alone as it is a major mandate which another body should be saddled with. To this end, they called on the government to work on the report of the Justice Uwais Electoral Reform Panel as well as others such as the Lemu panel and Nnamani committee reports, which recommended that a separate body be set up to handle electoral offences.   They also called for more collaboration between INEC and the relevant security agencies to facilitate prosecution of electoral offenders to curtail the excesses of politicians and their supporters as well as restore confidence in the electoral system. INEC had in the past tried to prosecute election offenders but the commission was overwhelmed given the number of individuals involved. For instance, out of the 869,800 persons involved in the manipulation of the voters’ registration process ahead of the 2015 general election, the electoral body was only able to prosecute 200, which represents less than one per cent of the total figure.  Then INEC chairman, Prof. Attahiru Jega, who admitted that the commission lacks the capability to prosecute electoral offenders, admitted that the only way to deal with electoral fraud is to adopt the recommendations of Uwais panel. “The best way of dealing with electoral offenders is to go back to the recommendations of the Justice Uwais Electoral Reform Committee, which is to establish an election offences tribunal whose business it is to prosecute electoral offenders. Let us have a tribunal whose full responsibility is to prosecute electoral offenders, so that INEC can concentrate its energy on conducting elections professionally and competently.”   President Muhammadu Buhari, who apparently reacted to the issue while swearing-in the incumbent INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu and five National Commissioners in November 2015, said it is not enough for election tribunals to just cancel or order fresh elections, but to address issues that warranted such cancellations.    According to him “another area of concern is the justice administration of the election tribunals. It is long overdue that our justice system addresses these shortcomings. It is not just enough for an election to be cancelled and a new one ordered.   “It would be much better if all whose actions or inactions led to the cancellation of such election to be investigated and if culpable prosecuted whether they are individuals as candidates or party agents, Institutions such as political party, electoral body, or public officers as electoral staff or security agents.   “Similarly, perpetrators of electoral violence and thuggery should not be spared. Unless our system stops covering up all forms of electoral malpractices we can hardly get it right. No system endures with impunity.” Uwais, Lemu panels’ recommendations  The 2017 Electoral Reform Committee (ERC) set up by then President Umaru Yar’Adua was headed by a former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Mohammed Uwais. The committee was the Yar’Adua administration’s response to the outcome of the 2007 general elections, which in the views of most stakeholders, including international election observers, fell short of international standards.   Yar Adua had in his inaugural speech admitted flaws in the process that brought him to power and he charged the 22-member committee to make proposals for electoral reforms. As expected, INEC made a submission to the ERC and contributed to its work by providing relevant documentation and clarifications as required.   The committee delivered on its mandate and submitted its report within a year. It formally submitted its report on December 11, 2008. Unfortunately, Yar’adua was unable to implement the report as he died before he served out his tenure.   The report consisted of six volumes, volume one dealt with the main report, while volume two and three dealt with memoranda received by the committee that comprised 22 parts and analysis of the presentations made at the public hearings held by the committee.   Volume four, which was in 13 parts, contained the verbatim report of the public hearings, while volume five and six contained reports of retreats held with foreign experts and the appendices to the main report.   Justice Uwais reasoned then that the implementation of the recommendations “will significantly restore credibility to the Nigerian electoral process and usher in an era of free, fair and credible elections that will conform to international best practices.” Among the recommendations of the report include the appointment of chairman of INEC and the rest of the board by the National Judicial Council (NJC); that only the Senate should have the power to remove the INEC chairman or anyone on the board based on the NJC’s recommendation and funding of INEC directly through the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the federation.   Others were setting up of a Constituency Delimitation Commission, Political Parties Registration and Regulatory commissions; holding of presidential and governorship elections at least six months before the expiration of the term of the current holders of the offices; independent candidates and that no elected person should assume office until the case against him or her in the tribunal or court is determined. Of particular interest was the recommendation for the setting up of an Electoral Offences Commission to ensure prosecution of offenders. Based on the ERC’s recommendations, the executive prepared a white paper that formed part of the Constitutional Amendment Bill it forwarded to the Seventh National Assembly.   A similar recommendation for the establishment of an electoral offences commission was made by the Sheikh Lemu panel set up the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan to investigate the 2011 post-election violence. The panel reported that 943 persons died, while 843 were injured due to electoral violence and recommended the establishment of “an autonomous and constitutionally recognised Electoral Offences Tribunal, but which may be an ad hoc body as it may not have much to do in between election periods.”    The Jonathan administration not only accepted the recommendation, it also directed the then Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to take steps towards setting the tribunal. Unfortunately, the commission was not established until the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) left office in May 2015.   Electoral offences Among those who believe that the INEC had not done enough in bringing electoral offenders to book, the only acceptable excuse is lack of capacity and not the enabling law as the Electoral 2010 (as amended) spelt out in clear terms what electoral offences are. The act also empowered INEC to undertake the prosecution of election offenders.   Part V111 of the act lists various types of electoral offences and prescribes punishment for them. Section 23, for instance, prohibits the buying or selling of voter cards; such offences attract a fine not exceeding N500,000 or imprisonment not exceeding two years or both on conviction.   Under Section 81, a political party or association, which contravenes the provisions of Section 227 of the constitution (prohibiting retention, organisation, training or equipping quasi-military organisations) commits an offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine of N500,000 and N700,000 for any subsequent offence; and N50,000 for every day that the offence continues.   The act also provides that any person, who aids and abets a political party to contravene Section 227 commits an offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine of N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of three years or both. Section 91 of the act criminalises contravention of limitation on election expenses. Under Section 91(12), any accountant, who falsifies or conspires or aids a candidate to forge or falsify a document relating to his expenditure in an election or receipt or donation for the election or in any way, aids and abets the breach of the provisions of Section 91 commits an offence and on conviction is liable to 10 years imprisonment   Section 122 prohibits impersonation and voting when not qualified, and its contravention attracts a maximum fine of N500,000 or 12 months imprisonment or both, while under Section 129(4) anybody, who snatches or destroys any election material shall be liable on conviction, to 24 months imprisonment. Section 130 frowns at undue influence of electorate on electoral officials; its contravention attracts a maximum fine of N100, 000 or 12 months imprisonment or both, while threats, under Section 131 attract a maximum fine of N1 million or three years imprisonment.  Section 150 empowers INEC to undertake the prosecution of election offenders. Section 150 is complemented by Sections 174 and 211 of the Constitution, which empowers the Attorney-General of the Federation and states’ Attorneys-General to institute and undertake criminal proceedings against any person with respect to federal laws and state laws respectively.  INEC backs Senate’s move As expected, the election management body has thrown its weight behind fresh bid by the Senate to pass a legislation for the establishment of Electoral Offences Commission. Chairman of the commission, Yakubu, made the position known at the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room Stakeholders’ Forum on Future of Elections in Nigeria, organised by a Coalition of Civil Society Organisations recently in Abuja.   Yakubu, who was represented at the event by INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr. Festus Okoye, said: “It is time to take decisive action to break the cycle of impunity through the promulgation of an Electoral Offences Commission/Tribunal to handle matters relating to electoral offences.  “The commission has made it clear that it lacks the capacity and wherewithal to continue the prosecution of electoral offenders. And it is for this reason that the commission supports and will continue to support the creation of an Electoral Offences Commission/Tribunal to process, arrest, investigate and prosecute electoral offenders.”  Also speaking at another forum, a two-day INEC retreat with members of the National Assembly on the Electoral Legal Framework in Lagos last week, Yakubu said: “Nigeria can no longer afford to foot drag on this important legislation that will provide the framework to deal with electoral offences as impunity and brigandage during elections are becoming more brazen because violators of electoral laws are not effectively prosecuted.”  Tracing the recent history of attempts at electoral reforms in the country, Yakubu recalled the Uwais Committee on Electoral Reform of 2009; the Lemu Committee on the 2011 Post-election Violence and the Nnamani Committee on Electoral Reform of 2017. He, however, regretted, however, that 11 years after the Uwais recommendation, “we are still talking about the prosecution of electoral offences.”  Against this backdrop, the INEC chairman urged the Ninth National Assembly to make history by passing the Electoral Offences Commission Bill into law as according to him, “it’s time to walk the talk.”  Stakeholders react Some analysts, who backed both the National Assembly and INEC on the establishment of a separate agency for electoral offences, said it will not only curb elections violence, but fast track the prosecution of electoral offenders to serve as deterrent to those who subvert the electoral process.  A chieftain of apex Igbo body, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Chekwas Okorie, who backed the move, told New Telegraph that he has always believed that there should be a commission to take care of electoral offences as well as take away the burden of prosecution of offenders from INEC, insisted that “prevention is better than cure.”  His words:  “I represented the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the Presidential Committee on Electoral Reforms set-up by President Umaru Yar’Adua in 2007. Four political parties constituted that committee and it was headed by Vice President Goodluck Jonathan as he was then. Part of the recommendations of that committee was the establishment of an Electoral Offences Commission, which was in turn handed over to the Justice Uwais committee and was eventually incorporated in the panel’s report.  “So, we have always believed that there should be a commission to take care of electoral offences as well as take away the burden of prosecution of offenders from INEC, but I believe that prevention is better than cure. While the commission is expected to come in and cure electoral offences, to prevent such offences in the first place through electronic voting, would have been a better idea.  “However, it appears to me that INEC is proposing a half measure by saying that there would be electronic voting, but there won’t electronic transmission of results. There must be full electronic voting system, so that results could transmitted electronically from the polling booths in manner that the ballot box would be eliminated in order to take care of thuggery. With that system in place, there will be nothing for the electoral offences commission and election petition tribunals to do.”  As the Senate, INEC and the stakeholders rightly admitted, violence has always been a major threat to Nigeria’s electoral process, but the nation cannot afford to wait any longer for the passage of the Electoral Offences Commission and Tribunal Bill to ensure that justice is done to individuals, who opt to throw spanner on the wheels of the nation’s electoral process.    