Mr. Ige Asemudara is a rights activist. In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on COVID-19 pandemic, delay in criminal justice system and sundry issues    How would you look at the lockdown and the relaxed lockdown order of Lagos, Abuja and Ogun States to curb the spread of COVID-19 by President Muhammadu Buhari?   I agree with our colleagues that have taken the position that the order by the Federal Government of Nigeria to lockdown Lagos, Ogun and the FCT is illegal. The Constitution guarantees the right to freedom of movement and the government can only tamper with the provisions where it is permissible by law.   No law permits the lockdown of the entire states. So, the Federal Government ought to have approached the National Assembly to pass a bill for that purpose. There was ample time to deal with such emergency between the time Nigeria had the index case and the time the lockdown order was made.   Even the Regulation subsequently made by the President came as an afterthought. Having said the above, let me quickly state that the lockdown was necessary to prevent the spread. It was a wise decision that even came late. However, it was an illegal necessity.   Do you share the view of Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha that governors locking down their states because of coronavirus pandemic acted illegally?   The Secretary to the Federal Government, Boss Mustapha’s statement that states locking down due to the pandemic are acting illegally is like the case of someone who has not removed the wood in his eyes but wants to remove the spec in other people’s eyes. His statement was blanket. Lagos State passed a law empowering the governor to exercise certain powers during this pandemic. He is not totally correct. Each state’s peculiarity and the reason behind the lockdown need to be considered.   There is dust over Federal Government’s palliatives to states as reflected in rejection of rice by some states, what do you suggest as the best palliative measure the by the government to cushion the effect of lockdown while efforts at tackling the menace of COVID-19 continues?   There are quite a number of things the Federal Government can do to help the people as palliative measure during this period. First, government officials should stop stealing our money during this period.  They should stop lying to Nigerians. They should be transparent and give adequate updates.   Are you not shocked that the Minister for Information was quoted to have said the Federal Government has disbursed about N100 billion or how much did he call it to less privileged Nigerians during this pandemic? Where is the money, to whom was it shared, how did the government determine who was poor, where is the evidence of disbursement? These are things the government should not do.  Second, in terms of what it should do, government should immediately waive taxation for businesses and individuals (VATs, PITs etc) during this period. Here, the state governments too come in. I am not talking about personal income waiver for government employees. I advocate for private sector because the owners and the employees of those businesses have Capital/Labour investments that are being directly affected.   Thirdly, now, the pump price of petroleum products should be brought further down. If the country now sells less than $30 per barrel in the international market, there is no justification for Nigerians to still be paying N123.50k per litre of petrol especially under this crisis. The price should be in the region of N70 to N80 per litre of petrol now and prices of other products should also be adjusted accordingly.   Furthermore, the Federal Government should ensure constant supply of electricity to households so that the stay at home order could be meaningful. One, people have bought perishable food items in their freezers and refrigerators so that they won’t have to come out regularly. They need the light to preserve those things. They also need the electricity supply to be able to do socials such as watching TV so that home will not be boring.   The Federal Government should take up the electricity bills of all Nigerians during this period and pay. The list of what the government can do is endless. The government just needs to be responsible and responsive. It cannot afford to continue to be a reactionary government that it is.   The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, has further extended the closure of courts across the country till further notice due to the ravaging COVID-19? What effect will this action have on the justice system?   Now, on the extension of the period of closure of the courts across the country per the directive of my Lord, the Honourable Chief Justice of the Federation, it is still part of the effort to prevent community transmission of the deadly virus. There is no way it will not affect the justice system.   This is the first time in our history that the courts will be on lockdown. Cases will be further delayed because only an extremely urgent case will be heard during this period particularly those that are time-bound even if your case is heard and judgment is given in your favour, who enforces it? The Bailliffs and Sheriffs are not at work too. So, after this lockdown, there will be so many backlogs of cases. Businesses will be affected, families will be affected, institutions will be affected and this will also have effect on our economy generally.   Nigeria’s criminal justice system has continued to be bogged down by delays despite existence of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA). What else do you think can be done to change the narrative?  Yes, Nigeria criminal justice system continues to be bogged down by delays despite the passage of the ACJA 2015. The solution is simple. The government should build more court rooms and appoint more judges. Go to Federal High Court, Lagos and see what they called court rooms. The building under construction at the Federal High Court annex in Bourdillon, Ikoyi has taken like forever! Something is critically wrong with this.   The number of judges working to dispense justice is too few compare to the workload. The labour is much, the labourers are few. On what will our government spend money if it doesn’t spend on justice and the institution of Justice? Now the Chinese doctors are in the country on the invitation of the federal government. What is your take on their invitation for COVID-19 pandemic? Is this really necessary at this time?   Finally, on this idea of the Federal Government inviting Chinese doctors, the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) has said they don’t need help. The Nigeria Resident Doctors Association (NRDA) has said it doesn’t need help. Why is the Federal Government so interested in the Chinese doctors when there are great suspicions?   Apart from that, the practice of medicine in Nigeria is regulated by law. Are these Chinese doctors qualified to practice medicine in Nigeria under the applicable law? This government cannot take decisions for us without consulting us. If our doctors say they do not need help, please let them be.   Remember, those doctors are the most patriotic Nigerians. At least, half of their colleagues have moved abroad to practice medicine, they chose Nigeria over other countries with better conditions of medical practice; they need our encouragement, support, cooperation and respect. The government should listen. 