Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa   Stakeholders from Agbere in Ward One of Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State on Friday called on the immediate past governor of the state, Henry Seriake Dickson, to contest for the vacant Bayelsa West Senatorial seat in the National Assembly. In a communique issued at the end of a meeting held in the home of  the immediate past Commissioner for Finance in the state, Mr. Maxwell Ebibai, the Agbere indigenes said the former governor’s track record of outstanding service to the Ijaw nation and Bayelsa… From Muhammad Kabir, Kano   Kano Road Traffic Agency (KAROTA) has impounded over 40 bags of expired powdered milk worth about N3.5 million. KAROTA officials on Thursday raided an uncompleted building at Zabi-Kafa, Bachirawa, Ungogo Local Government Area of the state after the agency was tipped off about activities of some persons suspected to be in the owners of the milk who operated in the said building. The dairy product named, ‘Sierolat’ upon examination by KAROTA officials was found to have expired over 20 months ago. However, the unscrupulous… The airline industry is not likely to recover to pre-coronavirus levels for at least the next six to 12 months, Southwest Airlines Co (LUV.N) Chief Executive Officer Gary Kelly said on Thursday. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought a virtual halt in air travel, leading to an unprecedented number of flight cancellations globally and forcing airlines to book hefty losses, reports Reuters. Southwest last month posted its first quarterly loss in nine years and warned that there was no major improvement in air travel in the second quarter. As… The United Nations is looking at different ways to hold its 75th annual gathering of world leaders – traditionally held in New York City – because “we’re not going to have business as usual in September,” a U.N. spokesman said on Thursday. New York City is an epicenter for the global coronavirus pandemic. The new coronavirus causes the respiratory illness COVID-19 and has killed hundreds of thousands of people globally, reports Reuters. “It’s hard to imagine that the traditional General Assembly with thousands and thousands of people descending on… A footballer has allegedly admitted killing his son because he thought the child did not love him, police have said. Cevher Toktas, who played in Turkey’s Super Lig between 2007 and 2009, told officers that he smothered his five-year-old Kasim, reports mirror.co.uk. The 32-year-old had brought his son to the Dortcelik Children’s Hospital in the city of Bursa on April 23 because the boy had breathing difficulties and a high fever. Fearing that they had the coronavirus, the father and son were placed in quarantine by doctors. Later that day… The Augsburg coach, Heiko Herrlich, will miss the restart of the German season on Saturday after he broke strict quarantine rules by leaving the team hotel to buy toothpaste. Augsburg host Wolfsburg as the Bundesliga becomes the first of Europe’s major leagues to resume since the onset of the coronavirus crisis, reports Reuters. The club said in a statement that, by leaving the hotel, Herrlich had broken rules set up by a German Football League task force. “I made a mistake by leaving the hotel,” said Herrlich, who was… Without wearing a face mask himself, President Donald Trump toured a mask distribution center in Pennsylvania on Thursday and announced plans to replenish the U.S. strategic stockpile of medical equipment depleted by the coronavirus outbreak. Trump, a Republican who is running for re-election in November, has resisted wearing a mask in public despite his administration’s guidance to Americans to wear them and new White House rules requiring that staff wear them at work, reports Reuters. The president toured the Owens & Minor Inc distribution center, which the White House… Canadians should accept the world will change even if a vaccine is found and the coronavirus pandemic ends, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Thursday, urging people to adjust to a new normal that will require modified behavior. Trudeau unveiled new measures to support hard hit sectors, including C$470 million ($334 million) for fisheries, and the partial reopening of some national parks, reports Reuters. “We have to recognize that things will change in this world, even after the end of this pandemic, even after a vaccine,” he told reporters.… Nigeria crossed the 5,000 mark on Thursday with 193 new COVID-19 cases confirmed in 14 states and the federal capital territory (FCT). A total of 5,162 cases have now been recorded in 34 states and the FCT. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) announced the new cases one minute before midnight on Thursday. A total of 110 recoveries were recorded, increasing the figure from 1,070 to 1,180, while fatalities increased from 164 to 170. The number of samples tested has also increased to 30,657 according to the situation… To reinforce the measures instituted to contain the community spread of COVID-19, the Lagos State Government has begun an extensive Public Enlightenment campaign, which will go across all the 20 local governments and 37 LCDAs. Speaking on the commencement of the campaign, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said the exercise was initiated after the discovery that members of the public did not comply with the directives issued by Governor Babatunde Sanwo-Olu as the lockdown was eased in Lagos. Omotoso said: “It was disappointing that residents threw…