A s part of ongoing efforts to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic in the country, Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation, Kaduna, has donated 1,500 face masks to the Kebbi State government.     Presenting the items yesterday at Government House, Birnin Kebbi, representative of the foundation in Kebbi, Muhammad Lawal, said the donation was to support the state government in its dogged fight against the the COVID-19 pandemic.   He said: “As part of our contribution towards the fight against the pandemic, the Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation… T he world is in a state of emergency on account the coronavirus pandemic that has shut down, ‘isolated’ or ‘quarantined’ our normal way of life. From being a country of needless social gatherings and purposeful or frivolous religious congregations, Nigerians, like their counterparts in many other parts of the world, have been constrained by the brutal reality of the moment.  While the frontline medical and health professionals are doing an awesome and commendable job in keeping the rest of us safe and risking their own lives in the process,… Researchers from Australia have said that excess coffee consumption could result to poor health.   According to the findings of a new study from the Australian Centre for Precision Health at the University of South Australia, too much coffee can increase the risk of osteoarthritis, arthropathy (joint disease) and obesity.   Arthropathy is a term for any disease of the joints. Some examples are arthritis, Charcot joint and diabetic hand syndrome and the symptoms may include joint inflammation, joint deterioration, because of nerve damage and limited movement.   In earlier… The shareholders of Wema Bank Plc yesterday at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) unanimously endorsed the payment of four kobo per share dividend, which translates to eight per cent growth from 2018.   Coming several days after the bank’s 75th anniversary celebration, the meeting availed the investment community an opportunity to gain insight into the performance of the bank in the 2019 financial year.     The AGM, which held in proxy, in compliance with the guidelines of the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), was moderated by the Chairman of the… T he organisers of the World Petroleum Congress (WPC) have cited health and safety issues as part of reasons for shifting the event to next year December, 2021.     The event, which is only held every three years, has not been held in North America since 1987, when Houston was also the host city. The venue and host city, according to the organisers, remain the same for the revised date of December 5-9, 2021.     The organiser said COVID-19, global market volatility and restrictions to travels by some… SURGE Gas price to double as crude may be renamed “Associated”     S ome Nigerians at the weekend bemoaned prices of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) also known as cooking gas, which they still consider to be very high, despite the fallen price of crude oil at the international market. In Nigeria, crude oil and natural gas are associated, which means they are produced together from the same well, and some Nigerians, who spoke with New Telegraph at the weekend, wondered why the price of one will be dovetailing while… D espite continued oil price volatility, Nigeria’s external reserves have maintained an uptrend in recent weeks, rising to $35.03 billion as at last Friday, the latest statistics posted on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) website have shown.     New Telegraph’s analysis of the CBN data shows that between April 30 and May 14, 2020, the foreign exchange reserves increased from $33.52 billion to $35.03 billion, indicating an accretion of $1.5 billion in two weeks.     Until they started heading north, the foreign reserves, which… T he Federal Government has issued a query to the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, Mallam Mohammed Bello, over alleged financial misconduct to the tune of N98 billion.     Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, who issued the query, alleged that Bello have been engaged in acts of misconduct while he served as Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.     In a leaked memo dated May 11, 2020 and marked HCSF/PSO/AOD/P030/5B, the Permanent Secretary was accused… T he Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has said that Nigeria is not ready yet for full opening of the economy.     Consequently, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the extension of the first phase of ease of lockdown by another two weeks across the nation from May 18 to June 1.   Chairman of the PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, made the disclosure yesterday at the daily briefing of the Team in Abuja. According to him, President Buhari took… T he Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has told the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, that he lacks the power to extend the two-week curfew and restriction of movements announced by President Muhammadu Buhari on April 27 by another two weeks.   The opposition party stated that the declaration by the SGF, who is the chairman of Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, is illegal.   The party pointed out that nowhere in the nation’s laws is presidential power to declare curfew and restrict movement of…