No end in sight to Lagos, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo, Osun PDP crises  The crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-West has continued to defy almost all solutions and this has lowered the political tempo of the party in the zone. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE writes on the state of the party in the six states that make up the geopolitical zone    A lthough it is over a year that the 2019 general election took place, the outcome of the polls is still having negative effect on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-West zone.   No doubt, the party didn’t have it rosy at the election despite the mouthed confidence it exhibited prior to the polls. After the rounds of the polls, the party’s anticipated victory in the presidential, gubernatorial and legislative elections didn’t come as expected in the zone.   Ahead of the elections, the leading opposition party drummed its intention to the hills, vowing to serve the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) a dose of its own medicine which it administered on it at the 2015 elections when it (PDP) was bundled out of Aso Rock villa.   Of course, with a voting strength of 16.2 million registered voters that placed it second behind the North-West, which tops the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) voters’ register, the South-West was a major force that the PDP banked on to return to power.   The six states that make up the zone are Lagos, Osun, Oyo, Ondo, Ekiti and Ogun. Courting voters in South-West at the flag-off of his campaign in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, who was the PDP presidential candidate, said: “Let me tell you that today, I said before you that within six months, we shall start the process of restructuring of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I have lived here, so I am not a stranger.”  Following up in the same breath, the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Seconds, said: “With what we have seen here today, it is sure that our people in the South-West want a change in government and Atiku is the only candidate who can rescue Nigeria at this time.”   Atiku has been trying to be Nigeria’s president since 1993. He has however been on the ballot only twice (2007 and 2019).  But few months after the Mapo Hall rally , the people of the South-West spoke with another voice and it was averse to what Atiku and the party, both at the national and zone wanted to hear.   After the election, the APC candidate and incumbent, Muhammadu Buhari, was declared winner of the keenly contested election after polling 15.1 votes against Atiku’s 11.2 million votes, thereby returning to Aso Rock with a margin lead of 3.9 million votes.  In the South-West, Atiku lost to Buhari with a margin of 259,780 votes after polling 1.7 million votes against APC’s 2.03 million votes. However, the PDP candidate won two states in the zone, namely, Oyo and Ondo states. At the gubernatorial level, the party contested the three vacant seats in Ogun, Oyo and Lagos. While it was able to secure the Oyo state seat, it lost woefully in Ogun and Lagos to its perennial albatross, the APC.   In the senatorial election, the party won four seats out of the possible 18 in the zone. The PDP won two senate seats in Ondo and one each in both Osun and Oyo states. The party also got one seat via the Election Tribunal ruling that upturned the APC victory in Ekiti State.  While some analysts largely considered the performance of PDP in the southwest at the 2019 general election as not too woeful especially with his reclaiming of Oyo State with Seyi Makinde emerging as governor, others believe that the party didn’t manifest its potentials due to protracted internal crises across the states in the zone.   Those in the latter school of reasoning cited some of the unresolved crises from its election primaries as the bane of the underperformance; they also highlighted traits of betrayal, conspiracy, greed, inordinate ambition, thirst for power and personal interests as the reason for the party’s loss in states like Lagos, Ogun and Ekiti.   Across the states that made up the zone, protracted internal crises became the order of the day and traits of betrayal, conspiracy, greed, inordinate ambition and thirst for power and personal interests were proffered as reasons for the party’s loss in states like Lagos, Ogun and Ekiti.  Expectedly, the managers of the party in the zone, led by Dr. Eddy Olafeso from Ondo State, went to work to see how it can evoke the good old days of the party in the zone. Recall that between 1999 and 2007, the PDP was on cruise control in the zone especially during 2003 general elections where it won five out of the six states in the zone.   To return the party’s fortune, the only PDP governor in the zone, Engr Seyi Makinde, has been serving as the middleman in all the crisis-ridden state chapters of the party. The governor held a stakeholders meeting of leaders in the zone at the Government House and it was from there that it was agreed that a unity rally held in Ibadan should take place. He also visited Lagos and Ekiti states in an attempt to unite the leaders in the state.  But regardless of his efforts, the situation of the parties in the zone continues to deteriorate, thereby forcing some members of the party to adopt the Biblical “To your tent oh Israel” style.  Except for Oyo State where the party is enjoying a relatively peacefully ambiance because the state has a sitting governor, the other five states have been groaning under the age-long crisis that has been bedeviling the zone.  But refuting insinuation of woeful outing for the party in the zone, the South-West Chairman of the PDP, Olafeso, told New Telegraph that the statistics of the party in the zone in terms of election result was the best among the remaining five geo-political zones.  His words: “If you look at the entire six geo-political zones, the southwest PDP came first in terms of delivery of votes to our presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.   “We also won the governorship and presidential election in Oyo State and we also won the presidential election in Ondo State with 34,000 votes. The margin in Osun was marginal. We won two senatorial seats in Ondo and three House of Representatives.” The PDP National Vice-Chairman lamented that the party faced a very tough challenge from the APC, and was still be able to prove its mettle  “As far as we are concerned, over   monetization and institutional abuse, what I mean by that is INEC and security agencies being used to harass our people and deny them of their democratic rights also limited us in some ways. Outside that, we are on top here, we are not in the minority here.   “We are on top of the game and generally speaking we are fine and determined to do well in subsequent polls. If anybody is saying we didn’t do well, they should come up with better statistics,” Olafeso said. Lagos: The peace of the graveyard   Out of all the six states of the zone, Lagos is the only the state that the PDP has not been opportune to rule for even 24 hours, yet, the party has been contesting against the metamorphosing progressive movement in the state. For the better times in the life of the party, the issues around it revolve around individuals and the test of might among them.   At different points, names like Chief Olabode George, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Mr Jimi Agbaje, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, Chief Mrs Aduke Maina, Hon Moshood Salvador, Segun Adewale, among others dominated the content of the opposition party, however, internal wrangling and lack of cohesiveness has limited the performance of the party during elections in the state.   It will be an understatement to say that the Lagos PDP had a bad show at the last general elections. The poor outing has been intrinsically linked mutual mistrust among the leadership that has always degenerated to a ‘dog eats dog’ scenario during elections.  With the graveyard peace in the party following the election of Engr Adedeji Doherty as the substantive chairman of the party, there are still insinuations of antics from some other members who felt the former deputy national chairman of the party, Chief Olabode George, was not duly carried along in the affairs of the party.   A member of the party who pleaded anonymity told New Telegraph that the members and supporters of the party are tired of the antics of the leadership in the state and at the national level, adding that some of them are seriously considering their options over the party.  He said: “We are just tired of how the party is being run here in Lagos. Look at Oyo State, they are back to power, what is our own problem. As we speak we don’t have a substantive state chairman, how can we run a party without a chairman?  “We are in a dilemma and it’s interesting that nobody is here to listen but when it’s time for the election, you will see all sorts of people coming to pick the party’s ticket. We can’t take Lagos that way,” he said.   Clearly, the on-again-off-again internecine political interest in Lagos PDP is still active and alive, but the question on the lips of its supporters is who will save it from its four-four year failure syndrome.   Ogun: No retreat, no surrender for Kashamu, Adebutu It may be apt to refer to the Ogun State chapter of the PDP as a one day, one trouble party owing to the usual bickering that usually tears the gladiators of the party apart. Interestingly, this wrangling is both on and off the election season with the same power brokers on both ends of the stick since 2015.   With a visible pre-election crisis in the ruling APC in Ogun State in the 2019 poll, it was a no-brainer to predict an easy victory for the PDP in the state. But that was not to be as the protracted factional crisis in the state chapter not only factionalised the party but also led to open market anti-party activities that made the different blocs in the party work for other candidates and parties.   At the centre of the battle for the soul of the party are two prominent chieftains who were equally former members of the National Assembly, Senator Buruji Kashamu and Hon. Oladipupo Adebutu. The ambitions of the duo have practically put the party in limbo and disoriented and disillusioned its teeming members who got caught in the unending supremacy tussle and legal fireworks.   Close to the election, the party produced two sets of candidates from governorship to National Assembly and state House of Assembly positions and this led to serious contention over who parades the authentic tickets of the party.   Prior to this period, the two factions, led by Chief Adebayo Dayo and Hon. Sikirulai Ogundele, which have tried to outdo each other to control the PDP structures, are laying claim to legitimacy and leadership of the state chapter before relevant bodies. Kashamu backed the executive led by Dayo while Adebutu supported the Ogundele group.   Eventually, the INEC recognized the Dayo-led executive and Kashamu, who represented Ogun East on PDP platform, emerged as the party’s gubernatorial candidate.   But during the elections, the various interests went blazing as former Governor Gbenga Daniel openly canvassed votes for APC’s Abiodun days to the governorship election, while Adebutu on his part went into an alignment with the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and its candidate, Adekunle Akinlade.   However, with elections over, the various camps, especially the Kashamu group faced an internal revolt owing to the state, local and wards congresses that were expected to take place in 2020.   His hitherto loyal chairman, Dayo, went in hostility against his former boss and got suspended by the party in the state for alleged anti-party activities.   Reacting to his suspension by some members of the executive of the party in the state, Dayo said, “They (Kashamu group) came to my house day before yesterday with N10m; they told me to take the money in order to sign their papers.   “The paper is to withdraw the letter I wrote to the lawyer. I was also asked to write a letter to INEC telling them we have concluded the congresses of the state. I resisted, I said I have written a letter to the lawyer that I do not need his services anymore because we are going to unite ourselves and I cannot sign the other letter telling INEC that we have concluded the congresses.”   But reacting to the allegation by Dayo, Kashamu in a statement he personally signed described Dayo as a betrayer, saying that, “We have the evidence of the meeting at Equity Hotel, Ijebu Ode, where Dayo collected money to sell the Ogun State structures of the PDP to Kessington Adebutu.”   Despite the hues and cries, the Kashamu camp. Last Friday, inaugurated its new executive members to steer the party’s affairs for the next four years, stating that emerged from the state congress held in the state.   Leading the 23 newly inaugurated executive members, the new PDP chairman in the state, Samson Bamgbose, said he and his colleagues would assume office last Monday, adding that the tenure of the outgoing state exco would end officially May 10, 2020.   But in a swift response, the National Working Committee of the party on Saturday dissociated itself from the newly inaugurated state executive committee of the state, advising advised party members that the PDP has not conducted any Congress for the election of party officials at any level: ward, local government, or state in Ogun State.  According to the National Chairman and National Secretary of the PDP, Uche Secondus, and Senator Umaru  Tsauri, respectively, said “It is the sole responsibility of the NEC/NWC of the party to conduct congresses for the elections of party leaders at all levels of the party. No state organ or individual has such power except as may be expressly donated by the NEC/NWC and same has not been exercised with regards to Ogun State.”   Clearly, the endless discord in the party is apparently not abating, but how it will get resolved is definitely in the belly of time.  Ondo State: When it rains it pours   All is still not well in Ondo State PDP despite the fact that the party without a sitting governor pulled a fairly good outing in the last general elections, where it won two Senatorial and three House of Representatives seats. But the issues of congresses and governorship candidate have thrown the party off balance as the various factions are spoiling for an edge over others in the rat race.  But for the disruption of political process by the novel coronavirus pandemic, the state chapter of the party, which is preparing for its governorship election in 2020, would have almost, conduct its guber primary.  Already, the crisis got deepened over the weekend on consensus candidate in the October governorship election. While the party’s secretary in the ilaje council area of the state Banjo Ikunogbon claimed that a former state Publicity secretary of the party and council chairman Hon Banji Okunomo has been endorsed as party’s sole candidates amongst the three from the area, the other aspirants refuted the claim.   Expectedly, no fewer than 16 aspirants have indicated their interests in the ticket. Twelve are from the South Senatorial District, which by the political antecedent of the state, is more favoured to produce the governor.   Of the lot, three appears to be frontline, they are Eddy Olafeso, Eyitayo Jegede, and Sola Ebiseni. For a state which is made up of sub-ethnic Yoruba group, it is believed that zoning would play a major role in the choice of candidate for the party.   While the party appears to be the new bride among electorate in the state, it is believe that the party leadership must maturely control ambitions and interests for the public acceptance to translate to votes.   Osun: No longer at ease ahead of 2022 The Osun governorship seat nearly fell into its lap, but almost doesn’t count for the PDP in the State of the Living Spring.   For a tortuous legal journey that spanned for almost a year , the PDP gave the seat a hot chase but the Supreme Court on July 5, 2019 dismissed the appeal of Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP challenging the declaration of Gboyega Oyetola of the APC  as the winner of the September 22 Osun State governorship election.   But 10 months down the lane, the party is in tatters and the biggest casualty of the crisis is the state chairman, Soji Adagunodo. Of course, this has drawn commendation and condemnation in equal proportion. It was Adagunodo’s suspension might have also been instigated by some zonal leaders of the party who are supporting the Adeleke political dynasty.   It was learnt that the suspension of Adagunodo might not be unconnected with his battle with the zonal secretary of the party, Rev. Bunmi Jenyo, who is believed to be an ally of the party’s governorship candidate in the last election, Senator Demola Adeleke.   It was gathered that the embattled chairman spoke at a recent south-west meeting in Ibadan that Osun was no more interested in retaining the Zonal Secretary position and agreed the position be given to someone from Lagos State.    But refuting that line of thought, the zonal Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Ayo Fadaka said, “We also declare that the Zonal Executive has no hand in the current travails of Soji Adagunodo as it is only the national executive that has the constitutional rights to initiate and conclude disciplinary actions on anyone of his status in the party. We, therefore, call for patience and restraints on this score,” it stated.   Reacting to Adagunodo’s suspension, Hon Oluwole Oke, who represents Obokun/Oriade Federal Constituency of Osun in the House of Representatives, said: “The ongoing crack in the leadership of the PDP in the state portends a bad omen for the party in the nearest future, mostly on the aspirations of members of the party in the state at all levels from the position of a local government councillor to that of governorship.”   Meanwhile, Olafeso has appointed the deputy chairman of the chapter of the party, Sunday Atidade, as acting state chairman of the party. Oyo: Makinde as the rallying point   The Oyo State chapter of the PDP is in a frenzy mood after his superlative performance at the 2019 general elections. For a party once associated with a rich record of internal crises, the victory of Seyi Makinde in the March 9 governorship election was all that was needed to start on a new slate.  Interestingly, the state chapter of the party is leading the charge to launch the recovery of the remaining five states in the south west.  The governorship candidate of the PDP, Seyi Makinde, was declared the winner of the gubernatorial election with 515, 621 votes. The APC candidate, Adebayo Adelabu, polled 357, 982 to come a distant second. Makinde won in 28 Local Government Areas while Adelabu won in five councils.   According to the chairman of the party in the state, Alhaji Kunmi Mustapha, said excellent performance of the PDP-led government in Oyo State would enhance its chances in future elections in the zone. “Presently, we are targeting Osun and Ondo states and we are working tirelessly to capture these states,” he said.  Expectedly, the party has been witnessed and welcoming loads of defectors from other parties. However, it is expected that the party, under the leadership of Makinde, would not only manage its affairs internally, but become a model of emulation for other chapters of the party.   Ekiti: Fayose, Olujimi still at daggers drawn Since the party lost in the last gubernatorial election, the PDP in Ekiti State has gradually turned into a shadow of its former self.   Interestingly, the two gladiators in the heart of the crisis, ex-governor, Ayo Peter Fayose and former Senator Abiodun Olujimi, were once allies, but politics for what it is can only be a game of interest.   Olujimi was once a special adviser and deputy governor in the administration of Fayose. She also got the senatorial ticket to represent Ekiti South during Fayose’s era. But the centre is not holding between the duo and reason is nothing but political interests which started at the commencement of the presidential campaign in 2018.   Speaking recently about her former boss, Olujimi whose re-election to the senate was upheld at the expense of the incumbent, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, said: “I played unforgettable role in Fayose emergence as Ekiti governor. I helped Fayose back to the party. I was going to contest the governorship before he came.   “When he came, he could not come into the party, the party said no way; He came to me and said please, help, let’s work together. Let me come back into the party, if we win and then, you will determine what you want.   “But for him to now come out and say I made Olujimi this and that is a blantant falsehood. We are both benefactor to each other. Although I was nominated under him as party candidate for Senate, but before then, I played a significant role in ensuring his emergence as the party flag bearer in the first and second term.”   The latest crisis started in March this year, when the party conducted its ward congress election in the 177 wards of the state. The party national leadership had delegated the Deputy Governor of Taraba State, Haruna Manu-led committee to supervise the election.  Meanwhile, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party has announced the appointment of a seven-man caretaker committee to pilot the affairs of the party for three months pending the conduct of the State Congress.    This was contained in the letters to members of the Caretaker Committee, signed by the National Organizing Secretary of the party, Col. Austin Akobundu rtd.   The letter dated May 8, 2020, stated the Caretaker Committee will run the affairs of the party in Ekiti State from tomorrow, May 10 when the tenure of the State Executive Committee expires.The seven man caretaker committee is chaired by Senator Hosea Agboola.  Reconciliation of warring chapters  According to Olafeso, the national leadership has given the zonal executive the mandate to unite all interests in the zone, adding that, “We are doing very well and we are united, you don’t see court cases any more in the South-West. All what we are doing in the zone is the policy of the national leadership,” he said.   