I t is a week now that President Muhammadu Buhari lifted the total lockdown on Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states. That was after five weeks which the Federal Government locked down the three areas to stem the spread of the Coronavirus in those areas. While Lagos and Abuja at that time were the hotbeds of the virus infection, Ogun became a victim, courtesy of its closeness to Lagos. Lagos has almost half of the nation’s cases.   But in those five weeks, things have changed tremendously for Nigeria, in the fight against the virus, albeit, not positively. For one, Kano State, which was not in the picture when the lockdown by the Federal Government started, has overtaken Abuja as the second highest state with the virus, closely coasting home to about 600 cases. Abuja is nearing 400 while Lagos is looking at 2,000 cases. Already, the country is edging towards the 5,000 mark this week.   On Friday, the Lagos State government added a very scary dimension to the whole saga, predicting that the state might see up to 120,000 cases by July. A grim prediction we would say.   The World Health Organisation (WHO) even has a more scary statistics than Lagos. The world body predicted that Africa could have about 40 million cases and about 190,000 deaths. Based on its prediction modelling, it said that the continent could experience a massive upsurge in cases, if containment measures failed.  But we are worried that while the statistics look worrying, Nigerians do not seem to understand the fight the nation is engaged in with the unseen enemy. Just on Monday, when the lockdown was eased, traffic jams returned to Lagos. The roads were crowded, the banks, markets and all public places were brimming with people, with many not paying heed to the warnings of the government on the need to maintain protocols aimed at curtailing the virus. Even many were outside without face masks, while social distancing was not adhered to.   Added to the inability of some state governments to be firm with enforcement of the protocols and the culpability of some security agents, who have continued to allow inter-state movements, all appears set that the worst predictions could come through.   It is in doubt if complete lockdown has been the answer to the containment of the virus. But one thing is clear. The nation might have been worse off if there was no lockdown. That is because Nigerians appear not to be conscious of the depth of the scourge and the possible easy transmission that it carries.   We concede that the poor economy of the country and the failure of the governments at all levels to cater for Nigerians through the provision of palliatives to the teeming population and other things that could keep them at home, contributed to the restlessness of the people while at home. But like it was stated by Buhari himself in one of his broadcasts, what we are facing is a matter of life and death.   The Presidential Task Force had at one of its briefings last week stated that it might be forced to advise Mr. President on a total lockdown of the country again, if Nigerians failed to stick to the protocols.   Reacting to the chaos unleashed on Monday, the first day of the easing of the lockdown, the  Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, said the regulations laid down for the control of the disease, especially those of social distancing and wearing of masks, were breached by the people.   Ihekweazu said: “…Yes, we might have extra infections today and tomorrow, but what we don’t want is an explosion of new infection. If we do have that situation, there will be almost no choice for the leadership of the country than to ask us to go back into our homes.”   The Minister of Health, Dar. Osagie Ehanire, was later to admit that the protocol of self-isolation for returning travellers was a wrong measure to have taken to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, as it has only led to increased cases of the virus in the country.   Be that as it may, it is important that Nigerians realize that we may now have to live with the virus in our daily lives. How we go about protecting ourselves and observing the protocols as enunciated by the government and other health bodies would go a long way in determining the figures we might end up with. Otherwise, the country might have to face another total lockdown, which might not be pleasant to anybody. We also expect security agencies to be firmer in helping the government. In the past weeks, several states have intercepted people, who have moved across several states, hidden in trucks and lorries. While we wonder how they made their ways through several states, we also point out that such actions would not help the country in defeating the virus.   We, therefore, expect that all hands must be on deck to ensure that doomsday predictions do not come to pass for Nigeria. With the deaths recorded in Kano, Jigawa, Bauchi and some other Northern states, which have not been attributed to the Coronavirus directly, there is need for caution, especially now that it has emerged that the virus is already overwhelming the country with little or no bed spaces left to cater for the cases. A stitch in time saves nine.    