 P olice have arrested about 30 suspects in connection with Thursday’s communal clash at Tingno in Lamurde Local Government Area of Adamawa State. This was as the state government has imposed a 24-hour curfew on communities affected by the crisis.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Sulaiman Nguroje, who disclosed the arrest in a statement, said the command would also enforce the 24 hour curfew. He said: “The command in collaboration with sister security agencies will commence the full enforcement of the directives effective from today Monday 18th May, 2020. “To this effect, members of the general public are advised to strictly adhere to the restriction order until further notice.  “There will be a 24-hour curfew with immediate effect across the local government which means all movements are prohibited during this period.” Nguroje added that dangerous weapons such as dane guns and machetes were recovered from the suspects.  The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Olugbenga Adeyanju, appealed to members of the general public to obey the curfew as a task force comprising policemen and other security agents had been deployed to assist in enforcing the government directives.  The commissioner also warned officers and men deployed for the operation to display a high level of professionalism and operate within the context of the law and respect for human rights. Government imposed the curfew in the wake of the crisis. Governor Ahmadu Fintiri’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Humwashi Wonosikou, said in a statement that the decision followed the violence which erupted on Thursday and the attendant tension it generated. He said: “Sequel to the breach of peace in Tingno Dutse Tito, Sabon Layi and Bagashi communities, Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has approved the imposition of a 24-hour curfew from 6a.m. to 6a.m. with immediate effect.  “Government requires residents to abide by this directive until further notice, so as to restore normalcy to the area.  “Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri views the disturbances as unacceptable, warning that security agencies have been directed to enforce the curfew, urging residents of Lamurde Local Government to shun rumour mongering and provide relevant information to security agencies to ensure a peaceful Adamawa. “While guaranteeing the protection of lives and property of the people, Governor Fintiri advised residents to exercise restraint and remain calm as the government is doing everything possible to track down the perpetrators and restore peace to the affected communities.”  