The World Bank has called on private creditors and the world’s poorest nations to speed up debt relief talks to help mobilise resources to fight the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Group of 20 largest economies agreed in April to suspend about $20 billion in debt servicing payments for 73 nations, more than half of them in Africa. The group has urged private creditors to do the same, but efforts have been delayed by legal hurdles and the risk of triggering default. African governments, who are negotiating the relief with a creditor committee, have agreed to stay current on obligations until an agreement is reached. World Bank President, David Malpass, said on a conference call with reporters yesterday that “I’ve been somewhat frustrated by the slow pace. Commercial creditors are still by and large taking payments from even the poorest countries, and there needs to be faster movement toward commercial creditors meeting the goals of the G-20 announcement.” Several low-income countries have said they fear calling for help would hurt future access to capital markets. But Malpass said those nations may be underestimating the impact of the pandemic on their finances. “Given that there’s a deep recession underway, it’s likely that the credit ratings for some of the countries will be downgraded as part of the global depression,” Malpass said. Meanwhile, some African leaders yesterday accused wealthy countries of failing the Africa, with pledges of financial support and debt relief falling well short of the continent’s needs as it battles COVID-19. Although developed economies have channelled trillions of dollars into health initiatives and economic stimulus at home, the Presidents – from Kenya, Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone, Senegal and Niger – said they could not afford such measures in their own countries. “We’re not in a position to protect companies, to preserve jobs. There’s an injustice that is again being exposed by COVID-19,” Senegal’s President Macky Sall said during a virtual roundtable organised by the New York Forum Institute think-tank. While Africa, with a limited capacity to test, has recorded just a fraction of the world’s coronavirus cases, it has been hit hard by the economic fallout from global trade disruptions, falling oil and commodities prices and the lockdowns deployed to fight the disease’s spread.  