The United States super oil major, Chevron Corporation, has slated 6,750 staff for sack in one of the biggest global mass disengagement of work force. The mass sack, the company with third biggest Joint ventures in Nigeria said, represents a cut of between 10 per cent and 15 per cent of its worldwide workforce as part of an ongoing restructuring at the second-largest U.S. oil producer. Spokeswoman for Chevron, Veronica Flores-Paniagua, confirmed this, while maintaining that Chevron, which has 45,000 employees, expects to remove about 10 to 15 per cent… Leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike, threatened to sue security agents for continued detention and torture of four of its members by Air Force personnel, DSS and the police in Owerri, Imo State. According to him, the MASSOB members were arrested at the Emmanuel College Junction, Owerri, for allegedly wearing face caps with the inscription of Biafra rising sun. Uwazurike alleged that the four members of the group were initially detained at the Nigeria Air Force base at Naze,… Forbes magazine, which in March 2019 declared reality TV star Kylie Jenner had become the world’s youngest self-made billionaire, said on Friday that it no longer believed that her net worth was that much. The magazine said it reviewed financial data released by Coty Inc, which bought a 51 percent stake in Jenner’s Kylie Cosmetics company in November 2019, reports Reuters. Those financial filings show “Kylie’s business is significantly smaller, and less profitable, than the family has spent years leading the cosmetics industry and media outlets, including Forbes,… *Pentagon puts military police on alert The Los Angeles Police Department has asked downtown Los Angeles residents to stay inside and for all businesses to close due to the escalating protests in the city. “We have declared an unlawful assembly throughout downtown LA,” the department said in a statement Friday. The areas impacted are from the 10 Freeway to the 101 Highway and the 110 Freeway to Alameda. “This is being made following repeated acts of violence & property damage,” LAPD said. “Those on the street are to leave the… The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) is not part of the group opposed to planned forensic audit of the power companies in Nigeria by the Federal Government. Stating this in a statement by BPE’S Head, public Communications, Amina Tukur Othman, the statement quoted agency’s Director- General, Mr. Alex Okoh, of dissociating itself from decision by the eleven (11) power Distribution Companies (Discos) to seek court redress to retrain the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commis-sion (NERC) from interfering in their (Discos)’s corporate activities. In a statement personally signed by the Director General… The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed 387 new cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria. According to a tweet from the NCDC on Friday night, Lagos State recorded 254 cases, the Federal Capital Territory recorded 29 cases, Jigawa State had 24 cases, Edo State recorded 22 cases, Oyo State recorded 15 cases, Rivers State recorded 14 cases and Kaduna State had eleven cases. The tweet further revealed that Borno State recorded six new cases, Kano State receded three cases Plateau, Yobe, Gombe and Bauchi state had two cases… Asaba Main-Market, Ogbeogonogo, is not only as old as the oil rich state, it is the age mate of Asaba town, the commercial nerve centre of Oshimili South Local Government Area of the state, which harbours the capital city. Ogbeogonogo has since the creation of the oil rich state made many millionaires and billionaires as business moguls from Lagos, Kogi and other neighbouring states, like Onitsha International Market, Anambra state, do cross over, to buy and sell their products in the market. The market, which was rebuilt during former Governor… Fourteen former African leaders, including former Nigerian President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, have joined former Nigerian Head of State, Olusegun Obasanjo, in expressing support for the embattled President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr Akinwumi Adesina. Adesina is currently battling allegations of impropriety and fraud levelled against him by a group. He has maintained he is innocent. The United States is insisting on an independent probe of the allegations despite the clean bill of health given to Mr Adesina by the Ethics Committee of the Bank. Obasanjo, had in a… •Wants Executive Order 1O withdrawn     Senator Ike Ekweremadu, representing Enugu West district at the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly, yesterday lamented the borrowing plans of the Federal Government, stressing that the way Nigeria was going; especially borrowing from China, could spell doom for the country. He said China does not forgive debt, warming that China may end up taking over Nigerian assets as it did in Sri-Lanka and Zimbabwe. The senator, who also called for the withdrawal of the Executive Order N0. 10 recently issued by President… *Kyari mourns Adeola Yusuf The immediate-past Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Maikanti Kachalla Baru, is dead. He was 60. His successor, Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari, who announced this in a Tweet, stated that Baru died on Friday. He extolled the virtues of the deceased. “My brother, my friend and my mentor, Dr. Maikanti Kachalla Baru, immesiate past GMD of NNPC died late last night. “He was id exemplary character and disposition. May allah forgive him and have mercy upon him,” Kyari said. Baru who, Kyari, deacribed…