Officials have warned that a Minneapolis police station which was stormed by rioters and set alight could now explode after gas lines were cut during the third night of violence in the city as protests over George Floyd’s death spread across America. Cops were forced to flee from the burning Minneapolis Third Police Precinct Thursday night when rioters rioters broke into the building and torched it. Shocking footage showed flames billowing out of the Minneapolis Third Police Precinct Thursday night just hours after prosecutors warned Thursday there is ‘evidence that does… The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has shut down its headquarters in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, following the sudden death of its Executive Director, Finance and Administration (EDFA), Chief Ibanga Bassey Enang. The management, in an internal memo signed by one Silas Anyanwu on behalf of the management, directed all Directors, Head of Departments/ Units and the entire commission staff to vacate the complex with immediate effect and go into self-isolation for two weeks. Although the memo did not state the official reason for the shutdown, but according… Crew to undergo compulsory test every 14 days Airlines to pay for test As the country prepares for the reopening of businesses, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has issued post COVID-19 protocols for Nigerian-based crew operating international flights. According to the new protocol, flight crew are now expected to wear Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and observe Infection, Prevention and Control (IPC) measures for the duration of the flight. Contrary to the recent practice, the protocol also states that the flight crew will not be quarantined upon arrival in Nigeria,… The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has raised the alarm that more people are dying from other ailments in the country because of the refusal of some doctors to attend to patients for fear of the virus. This came as the President of West African Health Organisation, Prof. Stanley Okolo, revealed that African young population was responsible for low fatality of COVID-19 in the continent. Chairman of PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, in his remarks at the daily briefing of the team… …urges speedy passage of revised budget, MTEF External debt to hit $40.09bn     President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, sent a request to the National Assembly for the approval of $5.513 billion loan from four multilateral financial institutions across the globe under the external borrowing plan of the government to finance the 2020 budget. The loan, according to him, “became necessary in view of the sharp decline in crude oil prices at the international market due to the COVID-19 pandemic from the $57 benchmark projected in the budget to $25 current… The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the posting of Commissioners of Police to nine states and other commands, in an exercise that is seen as “routine”. Among the states affected are: Edo, Ondo, Bauchi, Ebonyi, Gombe, and Oyo. The disclosure was made in a statement, yesterday, by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba. The following are the new CPs and their accompanying commands: CP Babatunde Kokumo, Edo State (he had served as one time CP of Edo State); the new CP Ondo State is… …warns against budget cut, retention of security votes Govs, AGF meet on fiscal autonomy for legislature, judiciary Buhari has delivered on mandates, says Presidency     The organised labour in Nigeria, yesterday, threatened to embark on an industrial action over the on-going retrenchment of workers in some organisations and the deductions from the salaries of others by some employers under the guise of responding to the economic downturn occasioned by COVID-19. The Labour-Civil Society Situation Room, which gave the warning, condemned the unfriendly labour practices, saying it had resolved to… Emefiele: Nigeria may escape recession   To ensure a quick recovery of the economy from COVID-19 crisis, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has slashed its benchmark lending rate, Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) to 12.5 per cent from 13.5 per cent to enable banks lend to customers. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, announced the decision yesterday in Abuja at a briefing of Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the bank.  However, the committee retained all other policy parameters – asymmetric corridor of +200/-500 basis points around the MPR; CRR at 27.5… The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has so far disbursed $22 billion in emergency financing to nearly 60 countries to enable them tackle the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak. IMF Managing Director, Kristalina Georgieva, disclosed this yesterday at the United Nations event on Financing for Development in the Era of COVID-19. The IMF boss, who described the scourge as, “an exceptional crisis, more complex, more uncertain and more severe than anything we have seen in living memory,” said the Fund was also tripling its capacity for concessional lending and providing… President Muhammadu Buhari has approved a major reorganisation of the Nigeria Police. This reorganisation includes full autonomy of the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB), creation of five additional Police Zonal Command Headquarters and the decentralization of the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigations Department (FCIID). By this re-organisation, the FIB, which was previously a section under the FCIID, is now a full-fledged Department of the Force to be headed by a Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG). With this new arrangement, the Nigeria Police Force now has eight Departments and each is headed…