…cuts interest rates from 9% to 5% per annum     Citing the need to further mitigate the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on households, businesses and regulated institutions, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has reduced interest rates on its facilities through participating Other Financial Institutions (OFIs) from 9% to 5% per annum for one year effec-tive March 1, 2020. The apex bank, in a circular signed by the Director, Financial Policy and Regulation Department, Kevin Amugo, and issued yesterday, May 27, 2020 in Abuja, also announced that… The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has suspended its rules supporting the trading of spectrum by telecommunications operators in the country. The commission said this decision was taken in line with the country’s National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020 – 2025, which requires that the process be reviewed. Spectrum is a scarce commodity, which when inefficiently utilised, greatly limits broadband coverage and speeds. The current spectrum trading guidelines were developed in 2018 after industry- wide consultations and it allows that the spectrum resource be traded on the secondary market through transfer, sharing… President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Akinwumi Adesina, has said he is innocent and will not allow allegations levelled against him bring his honour and integrity to question. In a statement yesterday, Adesina described the allegations against him as “trumped-up” and expressed confidence in the processes and governance procedures of the bank. “In spite of unprecedented attempts by some to tarnish my reputation and prejudice the bank’s governance procedures, I maintain my innocence with regard to trumped-up allegations that unjustly seek to impugn my honour and integrity, as well… The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has called on states, local governments and proprietors to prepare for reopening of schools. Chairman of PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, disclosed this during COVID- 19 daily news conference yesterday in Abuja. The SGF said: “PTF wishes to use the occasion of this celebration to congratulate our children and assure them, their parents and all stakeholders alike, that all hands are on deck to reopen the schools at a safe time. We therefore use this medium… Nigeria and three other African nations are to benefit from World Bank’s two facilities totalling $346 million to improve quality of lives in crisis prone communities. The global bank, which confirmed the approval yesterday in a statement, explained that $346 million facilities, an International Development Association (IDA) financing will help strengthen resilience and livelihoods among countries in Lake Chad region. The three African nations are Cameroon, Chad and Niger. It noted that the Lake Chad region suffers from poor development and economic indicators compared to the averages in the four… Following a series of allegations that Dangote trucks were mostly involved in the haulage of Almajirai and other young persons from the Northern part of Nigeria to the South-East and other parts of the South, Dangote Industries Ltd, has formally distanced the firm from such despicable. The conglomerate which belonged to the Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, yesterday denied any connivance in the haulage of youths, blaming the dastardly act on unscrupulous drivers. The company in a letter it addressed to President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, dated… Researchers in the United States (US) said higher levels of physical activity in women with a history of miscarriage were associated with very early pregnancy loss. Their findings were published in the journal ‘Fertility and Sterility’. However, among women with confirmed pregnancy, physical activity and miscarriage risk were unrelated, the study showed. Lead author of the study,Dr. Lindsey Russo, wrote: “Risk related to physical activity is different for pregnancy failure close to the time of implantation compared with that for later, clinical pregnancy loss.” Russo is a Ph.D. student working… …says hotel isolation no longer feasible for evacuees     The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID- 19 has disclosed that three of the remedy samples submitted by local scientists claiming to have developed cure for the virus have been forwarded to relevant authorities for verification and evaluation. Chairman of PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who disclosed this in his remarks at the daily media briefing on the activities of the team yesterday, also called on states, local governments and proprietors to prepare… A chieftain of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Chekwas Okorie, in this interview with Felix Nwaneri, speaks on the resolve by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to adopt electronic voting from 2021 and the recent appointment of a new Chief of Staff by President Muhammadu Buhari     What is your reaction to the recent disclosure by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that it will adopt electronic voting from 2021? I feel vindicated and I am happy that the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) has been compelled by circumstances to listen… Chief Ukie Ezeali is Ebonyi State Commissioner for Project Monitoring and Evaluation. In this interview with UCHENNA INYA, he speaks on the recent report released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) which placed Ebonyi as the 4th poorest state in Nigeria, among other issues     What is your take on the recent report released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) report which placed Ebonyi State as the 4th poorest state in Nigeria? Politics is an all-comers game, but visionary leadership is not. When political office holders, especially…