Zambia’s information minister Dora Siliya said on Saturday she had tested positive for the coronavirus but was asymptomatic and had gone into self-isolation. “Even after taking all precautions … yesterday I did test positive for COVID-19,” she said in a video posted on WhatsApp and Twitter, calling on citizens to stay calm and observe hygiene and social distancing measures, reports Reuters. Police fired tear gas and pepper spray at hundreds of Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters who gathered Sunday in opposition to a controversial security law proposed by China last week. The proposal is expected to ban treason, subversion and sedition, and comes after Hong Kong was shaken by months of massive, sometimes violent anti-government protests, and repeated warnings from Beijing that it would not tolerate dissent, reports France24. Fearing the proposed law will spell the end of the city’s treasured freedoms, campaigners called for supporters to rally and hundreds responded, gathering in… Arik Air, one of Nigeria’s indigenous airlines said on Saturday in Abuja that it was preparing to resume operations after the COVID-19 crisis, assuring that the airline would offer better services. The Manager, Public Relations and Communications of the company, Mr Adebanji Ola, announced in a goodwill message to customers of the airline that the company was collaborating with other aviation stakeholders to offer better service delivery. “No doubt, the post COVID-19 lock down will entail lots of sacrifices, changes and new thinking. “We assure that your favourite airline, Arik Air… Hong Kong has braced on Sunday for its first protests since Beijing’s controversial plan to directly impose national security laws on the city, in what could provide a litmus test of public opposition to China’s tightening grip over the financial hub. Beijing on Thursday proposed tough security legislation for Hong Kong, a move that sent a chill through financial markets and drew a swift rebuke from foreign governments, international human rights groups and some business lobbies, reports al-Jazeera. In drafting the new laws, which could see the setting up… North Korean leader Kim Jong Un hosted a military meeting to discuss new policies to bolster the country’s nuclear capabilities amid stalled denuclearisation talks with the United States, state media KCNA said on Sunday. The meeting of the ruling Workers’ Party’s powerful Central Military Commission marked Kim’s first public appearance in three weeks. He made an unusually small number of outings in the past two months amid coronavirus concerns, reports Reuters. North Korea has imposed strict anti-coronavirus measures although it says it has no confirmed cases. This follows intense… The Vatican Museums will reopen on June 1, the Vatican said on Saturday, ending a closure caused by the coronavirus lockdown that has drained the Holy See’s coffers. A statement said the Museums, which house some of the world’s greatest Renaissance masterpieces as well as ancient Roman and Egyptian artefacts, can be visited from the beginning of June, though only by making on-line reservations in order to control the number of people, reports Reuters. Visitors will have their temperatures checked and will have to wear masks and use hand… The Afghan Taliban has announced a three-day Eid ceasefire starting on Sunday, a spokesman for the armed group said in a statement, in a move following months of bloody fighting with security forces. The Taliban statement also instructed its fighters to refrain from entering government areas and also said that Kabul forces were not allowed to enter territories under their control, reports al-Jazeera. “The leadership instructs all the mujahideen of the Islamic Emirate to take special measures for security for the countrymen, and conduct no offensive operation against the… Muslims around the world began marking a sombre Eid al-Fitr Sunday, many under coronavirus lockdown, but lax restrictions offer respite to worshippers in some countries despite fears of skyrocketing infections. The festival, one of the most important in the Muslim calendar marking the end of the holy month of Ramadan, is traditionally celebrated with mosque prayers, family feasts and shopping for new clothes, gifts and sweet treats, reports France24. But this year, the celebration is overshadowed by the fast-spreading respiratory disease, with many countries tightening lockdown restrictions after a partial easing during… Juliet Bumah   Tuesday looked so promising and Adele was very happy. The only dark spot was the fact that Jay hadn’t answered her calls or called back, neither did he respond to her text messages. It wasn’t the first time such would happen but she just wasn’t feeling too cool about it anymore.     By midday, she got really worried. Why wasn’t he answering her calls? Could something be wrong? An icy hand grabbed her chest and her heart raced. Jay detested her getting family involved whenever he… Hon. Victor Afam Ogene is a former Deputy Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Media and Public Affairs and he represented Ogbaru Federal Constituency of Anambra State in the 7th Assembly. In this interview with PHILIP NYAM, he speaks on the controversial infectious diseases bill, his support for the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State and other residual issues   Few days ago you reacted to a statement by the House of Representatives on the position of the NGF on the infectious diseases…