Mr. Dapo Akinosun, a lawyer, speaks on COVID-19 pandemic, 21 years of uninterrupted civilian administration in Nigeria, restructuring and forthcoming elections, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports     What are your expectations from government and individuals in ensuring that the nation and Nigerians recover very fast from the COVID-19 pandemic? My expectation from the government is to make people sit at home. They should also try to figure out a way out of the social unrest that will come from it. It is difficult to tell people to sit at home particularly in an economy where people live from hand to mouth. However, it is also important in the interest of the larger community that people obey government instructions. What we have seen is crass disobedience to some of government’s instructions. Sadly, the authorities that are supposed to enforce it; a lot of the time have also shown weakness that has come from sometimes corruption and other times collusion. But whichever way, the government enforcement machinery has not done enough. The Senate recently began a constitutional amendment process to accommodate virtual court proceedings to back up conduct of cases through electronic mechanism such as skype, zoom and other social media platforms. Do you think Nigeria is ripe for this due to the epileptic power supply in the country? I think it is long overdue. There are many times you cause avoidable expenses just because you want to appear in a matter. It makes cost of litigation higher for litigants and unavoidable. For example, a man who is in prison in Lagos and whose appeal is going on in Abuja and he is on death row; it would have been good if the judge could see him and get a sense of whom they are dealing with. But if he is in prison, the logistics of taking him from prison in Lagos to appear in a court in Abuja and come back is almost impossible. So, it deprives them of the actual benefit of being able to gauge the litigants themselves, which is one of the things that hearing over Internet would permit them to do. In case virtual proceedings work, do you think it would aid fair hearing as regards to taking evidences of witnesses? There are arguments around it; there are people who think it will not work. But I am of the school of thought that let us try it first. If it has a problem, let’s see how we can work it out. But we cannot say that because of the fear that it won’t work, then we will not try. As lawyer, how do you think the judiciary can cover up the time COVID-19 pandemic rendered it redundant? The judiciary can never catch up with the number of cases unless more judges are appointed,better remuneration paid and making it more attractive for people. It is going to be a race between keeping-up with the reality. The reality is that there are few judges to deal with issues on ground. In terms of cases that have been overtaken because of the shutdown of the system, I think this is where the virtual proceedings will help. What I have seen at least in Lagos State for now is that cases are now being scheduled. People are now told to come to court at a particular time, so that the courts can deal with the issue. That is one of the benefits I have seen coming out of COVID-19 and I think it is going to get better. We have to get to that point, where not everybody has to get to court for their matters to be heard. Nigeria will be celebrating 21 years of uninterrupted democracy and one year of this present administration in a few days. What is your take on that? It has been an interesting journey because we can see democracy at work. For the first time in many African countries, we actually saw a strong power; a ruling party that ruled for 16 years being voted out and another party, a weaker one take over from the incumbent. That is an unusual thing in African politics, so I think whichever way you look at it, Nigeria has been at the forefront and remains in the forefront of democracy in Africa. Are people getting the dividends of what democracy is? Yes, we now have freedom of speech where people abuse Goodluck Jonathan or Muhammadu Buhari, but can’t do that under Sani Abacha regime. So, we can see dividends of democracy. Is everybody getting the kind of wealth they expect from democracy? Maybe not because it is not everybody in the country that is rich but it is a gradual process and it is our prayer and hope that the right people will get there.Can it get better? That is what we are working towards and we all have to do it together. Are there things we can do better? We have seen more technocrats coming into government and not just the traditional politicians, who do not have anything they do apart from politics. It is frustrating and slow sometimes but change is definitely coming on our way. But many Nigerians believe that this is not the Nigeria of their dream? The American too will tell you that this is not the America of his dream; not may Americans want Donald Trump to be their president but he is the president of the United States today. Everybody wants an Utopian country flowing with milk and honey. I don’t think that Utopian country exist anywhere but in our minds. Is the country moving forward; yes, it is moving forward. Are there problems, certainly yes! Can it get better; that’s what we are working towards and we all have to do it together. A lot of people just complain, but it is man’s wickedness to man that is leading this country to where it is. How can you explain a father sleeping with his daughter? Is it government that is telling a father to sleep with his daughter? It is just pure madness and wickedness. You see somebody stealing so much money; what will he do with the money when he is dead? It is bad behavior and upbringing. And it goes back to some of the evil that has plagued us from the time the military abolished religion, moral instructions and civic from schools. The standards have fallen but we are only seeing the effects of it today. Before, we were taught in schools; how you are expected to behave outside and how you are supposed to behave in a community but those things have gone. We have people having children without education. So, when the foundation is destroyed, what can the government do? Unless we go back to rebuilding the foundation, we must be ready to suffer a bit for it. People talk about Ghana and Rwanda, do you know what those countries went through to get to where they are. How many of us are ready to go through what they went through to enjoy what they are enjoying today? We want to enjoy what they are enjoying without going through the pains they went through. What are those things you think we can do differently? Certainly, local policing! I am one of those people who advocated that unless we change the style of our policing, security is going to be porous. We cannot do things the same way and expect a different result. So, we must be willing to accept change. You talk about the need to address the foundation, what are those things you think we need to address? I think the first thing we need to address is our educational system. We need to have an education tailored towards delivering the result. We need to have a reorientation of our youths. Many of the young men today blame the leaders of the past for the things that are wrong. Many of us in this generation feel we are wasted. When I was in primary school, Yakubu Gowon was the head of state. When I got to the university, Buhari was was the head of state. Buhari is still the president. What that means is that I should find out how I can also become president. We cannot keep complaining and then expect him to step down. You fight for what you want. We cannot just sit back and be murmuring and grumbling; we need to change our mindset and determine that whatever we want, we have to go for it. We have social media influence, what we use it to do is to display nudity. Why can’t we use that to educate people to go and vote or use it to do something positive and change the narrative? We young people are not even willing to fight for our own future. Some people believe some of the problems we are having in Nigeria is due to the constitution, do you think there is need for an amendment to the constitution? What is wrong with this constitution? People have been talking about restructuring. Nobody has particular definition for restructuring. What do you want to restructure? Is it that you want to cut Nigeria and say North and South should be different? Are you restructuring by saying there are too many states now? Before we started with 12 states, are you saying we should return to the 12 states or the regions? What do you want to amend in the constitution? You need to identify the things in the constitution that you think are not working. Is it the policy about federal character? Even some of those clamouring for change in the constitution don’t even know the content of the constitution. What can the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) do differently to conduct hitch-free polls in the forthcoming Edo and Ondo governorship elections and the 2023 general polls? The greatest hitch I have seen in election is electoral violence and it is not INEC that causes electoral violence; it is the politicians that engage in electoral violence. But INEC tried in spite of the violence to run credible elections. There were times when INEC staff and accomplices were offered filthy lucre to compromise elections results, which is part of what leads to election violence. Unless and until we are able to effectively manage our judicial adjudication process where there is a consequence for every bad behaviour, people will continue to do wrong things. If you know that if you collect a bribe to rig an election and you are caught that you will eventually go to prison, people will reduce lucre to collect bribe. 