President Muhammadu Buhari will this year break the agelong tradition by conducting his Eid prayers with his family members at home. According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President, who hitherto would have performed the Eid with fellow Muslims at the National Mosque, resolved to a solemn worship in observance of the lockdown measures in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, put in place “to save lives and protect people from all dangers.” He added: “This is also in line with the… The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), yesterday said that the recovery agents engaged by his office are institutional recovery agents and not his personal agents as being portrayed by some media. Malami stated that,” in his personal capacity does not have personal “debt collectors” for the recovery of Federal government debts. This clarification was contained in a statement issued by Malami’s media aide, Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu and made available to Saturday Telegraph, in Abuja. He said: “For the avoidance of doubt, the… A UK Court has dismissed Nigeria’s $1b suit against Shell and Eni, on ground that the court does not have jurisdiction to entertain the claim. It was reported that Barnaby Pace, a journalist and oil campaigner, who monitored the sitting said Nigeria was also denied permission to appeal against the judgment. In his written decision, the judge, Mr. Christopher Butcher, said the English case has both the same essential facts and parties as a parallel proceeding in Italy also brought by the Nigerian government over the Malabu deal. Shell and… President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday signed into law Executive Order No. 10 of 2020 for the implementation of Financial Autonomy of State Legislature and State Judiciary Order, 2020. The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), through his media aide, Dr Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja. The statement noted that a Presidential Implementation Committee was constituted to fashion out strategies and modalities for the implementation of financial autonomy for the State Legislature and State Judiciary in compliance with section 121(3)… A 20-year-old man has narrated how he hired some men to kill his elder brother because the deceased was his father’s favourite. The suspect, Ibrahim Abdullahi, and his partner in crime, Hassan Amadu, 22, were arrested by police men attached to the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT), headed by a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari. Ibrahim and Amadu were alleged to be kidnappers and armed robbers. The two of them were also allegedly responsible for the murder of Kadade Abdullahi at Amana Maikasuwa Village… Their visit has been trailed by inconsistencies –NARD president     The Chinese experts who arrived Nigeria in early April were brought in primarily to assist the staff of China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) to avoid the COVID- 19 infection, the company said in a statement yesterday. CCECC, a Chinese construction firm that has a hand in some of the largest infrastructure projects in the country, said the experts underwent a14-day quarantine on arrival into the country and were tested for the virus. “The medical personnel, including infectious disease… We pay heavily to beat interstate lockdown     It is no longer news that many people are defying the restrictions on interstate movements imposed by the Federal Government to curtail the spread of the rampaging coronavirus. What is however shocking are the reasons behind the defiance. Checks by Saturday Telegraph have revealed that, since the Federal Government imposed the lockdown on interstate travels, many relations of covid-19 victims had been illegally transporting their corpses for burials, against the guidelines of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The situation… Rev Ladi Thompson, pastor of Living Waters Unlimited Church, Anthony, Lagos shares a new perspective with ANDREW IRO OKUNGBOWA on COVID -19, saying that in Nigeria a new order will emerge from the chaos created by it     What new insight can you share with us on COVID-19? A wise man said that ‘he that asks the right questions will get the right answers to make the right decisions.’ On this premise I must confess that it is very difficult to hold any well balanced public discourse on the… Edo State Commissioner for Youths, Sports and Special Duties, Honourable Damian Lawani, spoke with OJIEVA EHIOSUN on sundry issues. Excerpts:     Now that INEC has fixed the governorship primaries, do you see the governor winning despite the political crisis in the party? I have always said that whether people call it fight, struggle or crisis, it is not strange but one thing we should know is that whenever there is a competition, a winner must emerge, and the process of the competition gives a very strong indication that the… Elder Sam Eboigbe is one of the political leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, and a top member of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) in the state. He spoke on sundry issues. Excerpts:     In few weeks, Edo State APC will select its flag bearer for the 2020 governorship election. How prepared is the APC going by the crisis on ground? By the Grace of God and the wish of the Edo people, the APC is ready to conduct the primary election as peaceful as possible.…