 Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa Bayelsa State government, under Governor Douye Diri, has said that the salaries of political appointees and those of board members for the month of April gulped N119 million.
The Technical Assistant to the Governor on Treasury, Account and Revenue, Timipre Seipulou at the weekend disclosed during the transparency briefing for the months of March and April, saying that the gross inflow was N12.8 billion while total deductions from the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) stood at about N1.5 billion leaving a net balance of N11.3 billion.
Incidentally, Governor Diri, as at the time of holding this transparency briefing, was yet to appoint commissioners in the state but has a number of social media personnel and some political appointees from the previous government on board under different portfolios like technical assistants.
However, the state government made a total payment of N4.8 billion for both capital and recurrent expenditures. Seipulou stated that the internally generated revenue for February was N848.9 million while funds from other sources came up to N1.5 billion.
Funds from local government refunds from bailout was N16.3 million, total of other receipts N2.4 billion in addition to net FAAC and other receipts amounted to N13.7 billion.
The government also said it received N1.2billion as internally generated revenue for the month of March 2020 adding that the figure was one of the highest raked in by the state in the last 12 months.
For the month of April, Seipulou announced a gross inflow of N14.3 billion comprising statutory allocation of N2.5 billion, derivation N6.3 billion, extra savings from the Excess Crude Account N2.7 billion, Value Added Tax N1 billion and exchange differential of N1.5 billion.
He also said total deductions from FAAC gulped N1.47 billion, which included refunds for budget support N152 million, refund on overpayment of derivation indices N128.3 million, Commercial Agricultural Credit (Scheme 2) N266.6 million among other components.
He declared N8.1 billion as total outflows, consisting bank loans and contractual guarantees of N2.1 billion, civil servants salary N3.9 billion, part of arrears for payment of January salaries N409 million, gratuity payments N100 million among other items.
According to the governor’s aide, a balance of N5.86 billion was left in the state’s coffers excluding capital and recurrent payments of N4.3 billion leaving a balance of N1.58 billion.
Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Orientation, Freston Akpor, said the transparency and accountability posture of Senator Douye Diri’s administration would no doubt build trust and promote good governance.
Akpor lauded members of the finance team for their painstaking efforts at rendering the income and expenditure of the state government in compliance with the Transparency Law 2012. 