T he management of Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado Ekiti, has refuted plans to reopen the institution or announcing the resumption date for students, following closure of the university to curtail the spread of coronavirus.    The university, therefore, called on members of the public to disregard the news, adding that it won’t take any step that would put the students’ lives at risk and danger of contracting the deadly disease.  The institution, which insisted that it would not flout the directive of the federal and state governments that educational institutions across the country should remain shut to contain coronavirus spread, in a statement by the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Eddy Olanipekun, clarified that the institution had not announced any resumption date in view of the precarious situation posed by COVID-19 pandemic.  The statement signed by the Head, Directorate of Information and Corporate Affairs for the institution, Bode Olofinmuwagun, said: “The attention of the management of EKSU has been drawn to a message being circulated in social media that the resumption date for students has been fixed for Monday, June 9, 2020.   “The management wishes to disown the said message as it is fake. The management of the university has no hand in the said message as it did not emanate from the university authorities.  “Members of the public, particularly parents/guardians and students are hereby advised to disregard the fake message.   “The whole world is still battling with the containment of the novel coronavirus pandemic, hence inviting students to the campus to expose them to risks associated with the virus now will not be in the best interest.   “The management of the university will give adequate publicity to the date of students’ resumption as soon as necessary measures have been put in place.  Meanwhile, some academic programmes of the university have received full accreditation status by the National Universities Commission (NUC), the agency supervising university education in the country.   According to the Head, Directorate of Information and Corporate Affairs in a statement, the accreditation exercise for the programmes was conducted by the Commission in October/November, 2019.  He explained that the accreditation report was conveyed to the university through a letter signed by the Director of Accreditation of the Commission, Dr. Maryam Sali, on behalf of the NUC Executive Secretary which was addressed to the Vice-Chancellor.   The National Universities Commission has the statutory mandate to accredit academic programmes in all Nigerian universities as part of measures to benchmark their academic activities, as well as carrying capacity.   The statement noted: “The academic programmes visited during the exercise that received full accreditation status at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels are Law; Civil Engineering; Electrical/Electronic Engineering; Geology; and Psychology; Building & Woodwork Technology Education; Education; Christian Religious Studies; Electrical/Electronic Technology Education; and Metal & Auto Mechanic Technology Education; Arabic Studies; Islamic Studies; as well as Philosophy which all got full accreditation.   “The programmes at postgraduate level are M.Sc. (Banking & Finance); Master of Business Administration; M.Sc. (Business Administration); Master of Personnel Management; and Master of Public Administration.” The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Edward Olanipekun, therefore, expressed delight over the development, and assured stakeholders in the university project that the ivory tower would not compromise the academic standard of the institution.   