Nigeria’s imminent food crisis is inevitable unless urgent steps are taken to intervene. This is the summation of what YEKEEN AKINWALE found out in his report when he visited Kebbi State recently   Fatima Wakili is a farmer in Kebbi State. But, she is presently saddened as she watches her farm produce—watermelons rot away. Wakili told our reporter that it is more painful seeing herds of cattle encroach her farm, eating up her farm produce. Though there is high demand for farm produce, there is no way to get them to market due to government’s lockdown order to contain the spread of novel Coronavirus disease. According to SENCE Agric, a Lagos based agribusiness consulting company, watermelons are easily perishable, and can only be kept for two to three weeks at low temperature between 11°C to 15°C. At higher temperatures, they decay and therefore should not be exposed to direct sunlight. This is the challenge Kebbi State farmers face as their fruits are exposed to higher temperature and direct sunlight. They are unable to harvest because buyers are not forthcoming. Like many farmers in the state, lockdown and restriction of interstate movement as a result of the outbreak of COVID-19 have prevented buyers from coming to Wakili’s farm to buy off her watermelons. She said: “My children went into watermelon production and invested our wet-season rice harvest, 15 bags of paddy, one ram and my daily profit generated from petty trading into watermelon farming. My expectation was to make much profit that will enable me to take care of the immediate needs of the family.” At Damana Village in Birnin Kebbi Local Government, Kebbi State, where Wakili lives, watermelon and rice are the most cultivated crops. It takes a watermelon 75 to 95 days to get to maturity from the planting date. Wakili and other farmers usually plant watermelon three times within a year and they were waiting for their first harvest when the interstate travel ban was imposed. Against their expectations, they are now counting their losses. Trucks from across the country and neighbouring Niger and Benin Republic that often convey their produce to wholesalers, retailers, supermarkets and pharmaceutical companies are no longer in sight and are not likely to return any time soon. The lockdown measure is worsening food security across Nigeria— disrupting internal supply chains and halting food production. It is feared that the COVID-19 pandemic may shift from being a health crisis to food uncertainty. Wakili told our reporter that she ended up having nothing from her farm as a result of COVID-19, despite her high hope. Though the Federal Government exempted trucks supplying food items and other essential needs, truck drivers and other personnel in logistic services fear they may also contract the deadly virus. Muritala Lawal, owner of Islawal Ventures, a truck logistics firm whose trucks carry goods from all over the country said his trucks are all grounded because of the lockdown. He said even if the trucks are allowed to move, the safety of the drivers and other personnel working with them is paramount. Lawal said: “We are not too eager to let them go out, the trucks are all parked even when the President said suppliers of food items are exempted from the lockdown.” Another farmer, Dammu Labbo, like Wakili, has said that farmers in the village are stranded as a result of COVID-19. According to Labbo, buyers, who used to come to the village with trucks to buy watermelon, are no longer coming. Standing on her farm as ripe rotten watermelon lay everywhere, she said: “My children’s farm produce is no longer selling and they invested all we had into watermelon production.” However, Nigeria’s Minister of Agriculture, Muhammed Sabo Nanono, has said that the Federal Government was creating ID cards for those in the agriculture sector, from farm hands to food truck drivers, to enable them to move freely. He said the government was taking steps to make sure farmers, millers and marketers could operate freely. The agriculture ministry, he said, is working to increase locally produced fertilizers, while the CBN would look to expand financing for farmers. Umar Kalo, also a farmer, had hoped to make between N1.5 million and N2 million from his watermelon farm. A distraught Kalo told Saturday Telegraph that he only realised a paltry N50, 000 at the end due to COVID-19 outbreak. Of these farmers, Kalo, who has been cultivating watermelon for the past five years, quantifies his loss more numerically. After selling two bulls he had reared over the years, the farmer said he invested all the proceeds including sales from his rice paddy, into watermelon farming. “The buyers are no longer coming to buy our product, now our produce ended up wasted, which put us into a serious, terrible and devastated situation,” he said. But Damana Village head, Abubakar Maiyaki, said he cannot estimate the level of the loss his people have suffered as a result of the restriction of movement that prevented buyers from getting to the village. “Most of our people are watermelon farmers,” said Maiyaki, whose farm produce is also wasting away. According to him, his people invested a lot of their resources into farming of watermelon because it has been a lucrative crop for them over the years. When they were about to start harvesting and offer their watermelon for sale, this COVID-19 struck, he said. This, he added, disrupted the whole process because the buyers are no longer coming to buy. “As you can see our watermelons have rotten and I cannot estimate the level of our loss,” said a visibly sad Maiyaki. Putting the losses in context, Abubakar Giro, a Field Officer at Oxfam Kebbi office, said the farmers who are members of Village Savings and Loan Association (VSLA), an initiative introduced by the humanitarian organisation to help smallholder farmers save and obtain loans, are now finding it difficult to feed themselves and their families. Giro said: “The farmer cannot quantify or estimate their loss because all their produce is spoiled.” He disclosed that the farmers were about to embark on the first harvest when the novel virus broke out, because according to him, watermelon is planted three times in a year in Northern Nigeria assisted by irrigation. In each of the harvest periods, depending on the size of the farm, Giro explained that farmers realise as much as 2000 pieces of watermelon on a plot of farmland. “They normally sell in batches. What they call one batch of watermelon is 100 pieces of watermelon,” he stated. Before COVID-19, each batch norand mally goes for between N20, 000 and N25, 000, which means that a farmer, who harvests 20 batches of watermelon would realise an average of N250, 000. Giro, whose duties include interacting with the farmers on sensitisation, further said: “If a farmer invests a minimum of N100,000, he or she normally gets between N400,000 and N500, 000. “But most of them did not get up to N25, 000 while some did not get anything. The irony, however, is that the farmers were about to embark on the first harvest when the restriction of movements was imposed. That is their major challenge, they were about to harvest and this COVID- 19 thing came. These elderly women are the ones that are giving their children money to buy seedlings, pesticide and go into the farm. Now people are struggling to feed themselves, they cannot even think of saving.” There is a comparatively high demand for watermelon, especially in the Nigerian market. But food experts have warned that the longer the restrictions stay, the more the loss farmers will incur. Watermelon is one of the popular and most eaten fruits in the country as most people take it as snack, for health purposes and as diet supplement. It also contains some enzymes that help to fight against cancer, experts said. This crisis may be what the World Bank and United Nations foresaw when they stated that millions of people in Africa might be at risk of not getting food as a result of governments’ lockdown orders. Aside Nigeria however, the pandemic is also impacting global food systems, disrupting regional agricultural value chains, and posing risks to household food security, according to Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations. The World Food Programme (WFP) also estimated that the COVID-19 pandemic may see more than a quarter of a billion people suffering acute hunger by the end of the year. According to WFP, latest numbers indicate that lives and livelihoods of 265 million people in low and middle-income countries may be under severe threat unless swift action is taken to tackle the pandemic. Nanono echoed the same sentiment when he observed in the recent World Economic Forum that there could be an imminent problem of food insecurity, not only in Nigeria, but also in nations all over the world.  