 P olice in Ogun State have arrested five men for allegedly beating a 25-year-old Monsur Kareem to death. The deceased was said to have met his untimely death when he mediated during an argument.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, said it occurred last Wednesday at Ijoko area of Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area. He gave the names of the suspects as Toheeb Popoola, Ibrahim Ridwan, Mutiu Tijani, Akeem Ishola and Lawal Afeez.  Oyeyemi disclosed that the father of the deceased reported the incident at Sango Police Station after which the suspects were apprehended.  He said: “The suspects were arrested following a report by the deceased father, Najeem Kareem, at Sango Police Station that his son was beaten to coma by the suspects following a minor misunderstanding he had with Toheeb Popoola. He was rushed to the hospital but was confirmed dead by the doctor.  “Upon his report, the DPO Sango Division, CSP Godwin Idehai, led his detectives to the scene at Ijoko area where the five suspects were apprehended. “Preliminary investigation revealed that while a landlord in the area was coming in his tricycle loaded with kegs of water, he fell down with the kegs of water and while picking those kegs, Toheeb Popoola whose house was situated in the place came out to question him for his reason of staying there. This led to an argument between them and it was at that point the deceased met them and tried to intervene. “His intervention did not go down well with Toheeb who invited the other four suspects to the scene and ordered them to beat both the deceased and the tricycle man up. In the process, the deceased was rushed to the hospital where he was confirmed dead.   “The corpse of the deceased has been deposited at Ifo General Hospital mortuary for autopsy.” Oyeyemi said the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution. 