As part of measures to contain the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCoS) has released a total of 3,751 inmates from various centres across the country. In a statement by its spokesperson, Mr. A. Njoku, a Deputy Comptroller, the NCoS said the released inmates met the conditions set by the Federal Government. “The Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) wishes to announce as at date the release of 3,751 inmates comprising convicts and awaiting trial persons who met the criteria set,” the service said. Recall that the Federal Government had… Former President Goodluck Jonathan and other world leaders have raised the alarm that democracy has been put at risk in many countries since the upsurge of coronavirus pandemic. The leaders under the auspices of Kofi Annan Foundation, in an open letter, regretted that some countries hide under the pandemic to postpone elections indefinitely without recourse to appropriate channels. Among leaders who signed the letter were former President of Mexico, Toomas Hendrik Ilves and his Estonia counterpart, Joe Clark; former Prime Minister of Canada, Ruth Dreifuss, as well as Madeleine Albright,… The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has lamented the fate of African airlines occasioned by the devastating effects of COVID-19. Speaking at a media roundtable, IATA’s Vice President, Africa and Middle East, Muhammad Ali, said the continent’s carriers are currently battling for survival. Ali stressed that already, Air Mauritius has entered voluntary administration, South African Airways and SA Express are in business rescue. He noted that other distressed carriers have placed staff on unpaid leave or signalled their intention to cut jobs. In the Middle East, he said Etihad Airways,… The Nigeria government has unfolded plan of raising N170 billion through Islamic sukuk bond. A notice to this effect, posted on the website of Debt Management Office (DMO), showed the fresh Islamic bond is a 7-year tenor at 11.20 per cent rental rate with bids opened on May 21, 2020. The debt is being issued by a multipurpose vehicle called FGN Roads Sukuk Company 1 Plc., while FBNQuest Merchant Bank and Lotus Financial Service Limited are the financial advisors to the bonds. In a public notice by the multipurpose company,… Excess Crude Account balance drops to $72.4m States to get $1.5bn stimulus from World Bank FG, states to collaborate on re-opening of economy       Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, has warned that Nigeria’s economy is heading towards another round of recession following the crash in the price of crude oil and other disruptions in the system as a result of the negative impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. Ahmed, who raised the alarm yesterday while briefing newsmen after the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting… Aero seeks merger Air Peace to scrap in-flight meal service   The Federal Government is currently working on how to bail out the aviation sector following the damage COVID-19 outbreak has done to the industry. Director-General of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt Musa Nuhu, disclosed this yesterday. He explained that Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, has presented a case to the Presidency on the revival of the aviation industry. Speaking at an aviation virtual seminar on ‘Flying Into Turbulent Skies, Safely Navigating COVID-19 Headwinds: Survival Strategies For Nigerian Aviation’, organised… The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has revealed that majority of the COVID-19 deaths recorded in the country was as a result of complications arising from underlining ailments such as hypertension, diabetes, HIV, cancer, tuberculosis or other terminal diseases. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who made this known at the PTF’s daily briefing yesterday in Abuja, added that about 70 per cent of fatalities recorded were persons over 60 years of age. Ehanire, who revealed that nearly half of the 200 COVID-19 deaths so far recorded in the… TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the controversy trailing the Lagos State nominee for the Federal Character Commission in the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC)       Since the return of democracy to Nigeria on May 29, 1999, Lagos State has been under the control of one political party and same gladiators. Though four political parties have steered the ship of the “Centre of Excellence” as Lagos State is known – Alliance for Democracy (AD), Action Congress (AC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and All Progressives Congress (APC)… Oil and gas sector experts believe the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) can rejig the nation’s economy after the COVID-19 pandemic. PHILIP NYAM reports on a recent engagement of stakeholders and the media       Fifteen years after its introduction in the Nigerian parliament, it is not yet Uhuru for the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB). Unarguably the oldest bill in the history of Nigerian democracy, the fate of the PIB still hangs in the balance. In spite of the uncertainty surrounding the survival of the bill, many… Quietly, there seems to be some political re-alignments and strategizing going on by some politicians angling to contest the 2023 presidential election. While it is an open secret that some politicians are beginning to thinker with the idea of setting up structures across the country, some others are in open consultations, reaching out across the political aisle and setting up outfits. There is no doubt that 2023 will be an interesting year, especially in the All Progressives Congress (APC), where interests from some of the party chieftains from the North,…