 CLEMENT JAMES reports that history is about to repeat itself in Cross River State as the National Assembly members from the state battle Governor Ben Ayade  for the soul of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state  I n 1983 when the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) was in power in the state, National Assembly members from the old Cross River, led by Dr. Joseph Wayas and Chief Victor Akan and known as “Lagos front” (Lagos was then the nation’s capital), pulled out punches against “the home front” led by Dr. Clement Isong and Dr. Mathias Ofoboche, governor and deputy governor respectively.   The Lagos front eventually won the battle as they were able to install Donald Etiebet as governor before the intervention of the military. Today, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is in power in the state and a similar situation is about to take place. It would seem that the National Assembly members had been laying ambush for Governor Ben Ayade for some time.  He has often been accused of taking major decisions in the state without consulting stakeholders, including an attempt to sideline them in the build-up to the aborted March 28 local government election.   To show that all was not well between the home front (now tagged digital home front) and the Abuja front, Ayade’s commissioners and special advisers, in February this year, held a press briefing at the NUJ Press Center, accusing the National Assembly members of attempting to determine who will be chairmen and councilors in the local government election which was scheduled for March 28 before COVID-19 announced its arrival in the country.   Led by a onetime House of Assembly member and current Commissioner for Aviation, Dr. Jake Otu Enya, Ayade’s commissioners and special advisers warned the National Assembly members to prepare for recall if they fail to give the governor the opportunity to choose those who will lead the local councils.   Enya said: “Undermining the governor by whatsoever means as they are currently doing by procuring congresses forms and preparing lists in all the wards, chapters and state is indeed undermining us all and impugning on the sensibilities of our people.   “The National Assembly members who are presently heating the polity with their vaulting ambition should note that in Cross River State, government house is not for sale, and indeed, not for the highest bidder.   “It is not for mediocrity, opaqueness and competitive particularism, but for performance, transparency and ethical universalism. Moreover, it is about Cross Riverians and their choice of whom they consider will do the will of the greatest number for the greatest happiness.”   The commissioners further accused the National Assembly members of not showing gratitude to the governor who, according to them, was instrumental to their winning elections to the offices they now occupy.   “Ingratitude is witchcraftcy and will be visited by equal and proportional force even if not more. We are grateful to the makers of the constitution that makes provision for recall. This instrument of checking the excesses of our elected representatives is in our hands.  The time is now to set it in motion,” Enya said.   That same month, about 13 local government chairmanship aspirants in Cross River State called for the cancellation of the processes that led to the selection of the party’s candidates for the local government election, which was sent by the home front.    A petition to the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, which was signed by all the 13 aspirants and circulated to journalists, warned that if the national party leadership fails to intervene, the party may lose to the opposition party as happened in Zamfara State.   Those who signed the petition included Godwin Offiono (Yala); Boniface Odey (Yala); Naku John ( Ogoja LGA); Sunday Igbaji (Ogoja); Ikpi Ubana Eyong (Yakurr LGA) Chief Nelson Ofem (Yakurr); Obi Stephen Owan (Etung LGA); Theophilus Abri Abeng (Obubra); and Orok Bassey Duke (Odukpani LGA).   Others were Iwasam Adaga (Abi); Francis Ekeng (Calabar South); Ekeng Efiom Edet (Akpabuyo) and Christopher Ekpo (Calabar Municipality).   The aspirants, who were drawn from the three senatorial zones of the state, insisted that the list of candidates of the party, which was released by the state government, fell short of the provisions of the party’s constitution and that there was the danger of losing the state to opposition party should the situation remain unchecked.   The petition read in part: “What happened in the state was a meeting of a few people who wrote names and forwarded same to Cross River State Independent Electoral Commission (CROSIEC) as candidates of the party.    “We therefore respectfully urge you to admonish the leadership of the party in Cross River State to cancel the entire process, which was a sham and conduct fresh primary elections for the emergence of candidates.   “We foresee danger ahead for the party if Cross River State government does not do the right thing; the precedent in Zamfara State is too fresh that our memory will be aloof. Otherwise, the danger of losing Cross River State as a PDP state to the opposition parties is gradually looming by this act of outright imposition and impunity.”   The candidates emphasized that from the beginning, activities in the time table were not observed. They also complained that there were no forms as interest and nomination forms were not made available despite the fact that some aspirants made payment to the party’s account.   According to them, instead of doing the right thing as stipulated in the constitution of the party, “on the 30th of January, 2020, some group of persons  appeared with heavily armed soldiers and policemen and affirmed persons hitherto published as candidates  in contravention of the date for submission of list of candidates by political parties.”   According to the legislators, the way and manner the governor allegedly handled the primaries at the ward and local government levels alerted the National Assembly members. They were neither consulted nor their interests taken into consideration while compiling the list.   To the lawmakers, Ayade is trying build structures ahead of 2023, so that he could plant his loyalist as governor, but they are prepared for war. However, the advent of COVID-19 stopped the two groups from confronting one another.   A twist was added to the tussle, when the national leadership of the PDP sent a letter dated Sunday April 26, 2020 with reference number PDP/DOM/GF.V/Vol 2/20-387B and signed by the National Organizing Secretary, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd.) to the state chairman, giving names of those who will pilot the affairs of the ward and local government for the party in the next three and four years respectively.   The list, which was a far cry from what the governor sent earlier, generated discomfort in the governor’s camp as most of the names he sent were dropped by the national leadership, while those of the National Assembly members sailed through.   The letter, which our correspondent sighted, was titled: “Approval of new ward and local government area executive committee members (Exco Members) in Cross River State,” and addressed to the state chairman, Ntufam Edim Inok Edim and the governor copied.   It read in part: “I hereby forward to you the authentic list of the ward and local government executives for all the 196 wards and 18 LGAs of your state as contained in the attached list of names of approved wards and LGAs Exco members.   “This shall be the new Exco members at the expiration of the current executives, i.e. April 30, 2020 for Ward; May 05, 2020 for LGA, and shall hold office for a period of four (4) years pursuant to section 47 (1) of our party’s constitution as amended; (ie.April 30, 2020-April 30, 2024 for Ward Executives; and May 05, 2020-May 05, 2024 for LGA Executives.)   “You are therefore by this correspondence, directed to take necessary and appropriate steps to inaugurate the new executive officers in accordance with the provisions of Section 65 of our party’s constitution as amended in 2017.   “In doing this, you are advised to also take into proper account the provisions of the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines of Covid-19 as it concerns social distancing and gathering of people in one place.” But a close associate of the governor, who spoke to our correspondent in confidence, accused the national leadership of the party of pandering to the wishes of the National Assembly members, disclosing that the governor was only given 30 per cent of the members of the entire list.   He said: “This list does not favour the governor and he is not happy because most of those on that list are loyal to members of the National Assembly. The governor sent his own list and now the national leadership is only giving him 30 per cent.”   Reacting to the directive of the PDP national leadership, a group which goes by the name – Movement for the Restoration of Cross River PDP (MFTROCR) – has expressed gratitude to the national leadership of the party “for bringing out an authentic list which has taken care of all vested interests.”   Noting that the directive will restore the confidence of founding members of the party in the state, the group’s spokesperson, Comrade Raymond Takom, said: “What the party has done by releasing authentic list of wards and local government chapter executives and duly signed by the National Organising Secretary is worthy of commendation and emulation. The list sent to the governor and state party chairman is a reflection of what happened during the congresses.   ‘’In the first place, the committee members that conducted the wards and local government congresses were all nominated by the governor, who is the leader of the party in the state. No stakeholder had a hand in the congresses, so the list is a reflection of what they forwarded to Abuja.  I think the national leadership must have looked into it and ensured that all key stakeholders’ interests were all accommodated hence the authentic list as they stated in the letter.   ‘’The only thing we did was to ensure that there was a contest in virtually all the positions to prove that we are democratic. So, anybody who feels he lost out should wait for another time. We also insist that any attempt to tinker with the list would be resisted.’’   The list from the national leadership of the party stirred the hornet’s nest, prompting the state leadership of the party and indeed, the governor’s aides to gather penultimate week at the state party secretariat to vent their spleen. It was while disowning the list from the national secretariat that the state chairman, Edim reportedly made some disparaging remarks against the national leadership.   The aftermath of the remark was that members of the PDP in Edim’s ward decided to suspend him on May 1.  According to the 16 personalities who signed the letter titled: “Notification of suspension from the party,” the state party chairman was suspended because he had chided the national leadership over the list that was sent.   But last week, the party leadership calmed frayed nerves, whether for political expediency of not wanting to lose the state or just allowing the party chairman to believe all is well, the national leadership sent a letter to Edim, asking his current exco to continue on “caretaker” basis for the next three months.   This, for now, has halted the crisis in the state chapter of the party, albeit, temporarily, but analysts and observers look forward to see what happens when the three months is over.   