CHUKWU DAVID reports that the decision of the Senate to probe alleged financial recklessness amounting to N40 billion by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has generated serious controversy and suspicion between the Chamber and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio  The Senate on May 3, 2020 set up an ad hoc committee to investigate alleged financial recklessness by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Senator Olubunmi Adetunbi, representing Ekiti North on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was appointed as the chairman of the ad hoc Committee by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan. Other members of the Panel are Senators Jika Dauda Haliru (APC, Bauchi Central), Mohammed Tanko Almakura (APC, Nasarawa South), Abdulfatai Buhari (APC, Oyo North), Chukwuka Utazi (PDP, Enugu North), Ibrahim Hadeija (APC, Jigawa North East) and Degi-Eremienyo Biobarakuma Wangaha (APC, Bayelsa East). The apex legislative Assembly, while passing resolution on the probe, specifically directed the committee to thoroughly investigate the allegation that the NDDC’s Interim Management Committee squandered the sum of N40 billion within the last three months. To effectively execute the assignment, the Senate mandated the ad hoc committee to critically look into the financial transactions carried out by the Interim Management Committee on behalf of the commission within the period under review and submit its report to the Chamber in four weeks. The decision of the upper legislative Chamber to embark on this probe, which has attracted reactions from various segments of the Nigerian public, followed a motion sponsored by Senator Thompson George Sekibo (PDP, Rivers East). Presenting the motion entitled: “Urgent Need to Investigate Alleged Financial Recklessness in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC),” Sekibo alleged that reports from the NDDC indicate that there was financial recklessness, which must be investigated and stopped. He said that President Muhamnadu Buhari set up the commission’s Interim Management Committee to coordinate the forensic auditing of financial transactions carried out by the dissolved board of the NDDC but regretted that reports from the committee portrayed financial recklessness on its part. The lawmaker noted that apart from financial recklessness allegedly perpetrated by the NDDC’s Interim Management Committee, it also allegedly indulged in arbitrary sack of the management staff of the Commission. He said: “While President Buhari ‘s action of setting up an IMC and the forensic audit may have been conceived to forestall the financial recklessness of the commis-sion and reposition it for fast tracking of the development of the region, the IMC has been more bedevilled with the same financial misuse , misapplication, misappropriation or outright fraud in the management of the funds of the commission. “Within the last three months, the commission has spent over N40 billion of the commission’s fund without recourse to established processes of funds disbursements, which has open up further suspicion among stakeholders of the Niger Delta Region. “The IMC is also alleged to be arbitrarily using executive power for wrongful sacking of management staff of the commission without recourse to established civil service rules and practices. “Consequently, the IMC has lost credibility and is seen as a financial conduit pipe based on opinions of stakeholders in the region, which urgently calls for an intervention by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to install confidence in the people for whom the commission was primarily established.” Sekibo prayed the Senate to mandate its committee on Niger Delta Affairs to carry out an investigation on all issues relating to but not a limited misapplication and misappropriation of N40 billion by the commission as well as all procurement and financial transactions of the commission in this fiscal year 2020 and any other matter that is not in accordance with the provisions of the NDDC Establishment Act 2000. But Senators Bala Na’Allah (APC, Kebbi South) and Ajibola Basiru (APC, Osun Central) in their separate contributions to the debate on the motion, through different constitutional points of order, protested and said instead of the standing committee, an ad-hoc committee be set up to probe the commission, a prayer which was eventually adopted by the Senate. Many other senators who made contributions supported the motion and the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, ruled in its favour, saying that at the level of investigation, the veracity or otherwise of the allegations would be ascertained. Before then, Senator Peter Nwaboashi (PDP, Delta South), who is the chairman of the Senate Committee on NDDC, tried to counter Na’allah, saying: “My learned colleague in the Bar, Senator Na’allah raised a point of order and in the process, he said that the committee failed to perform its duties and it is on record. When the issue was raised again, he went over to say again that Sekibo did not bring it on behalf of the committee. On his part, the Senate President, Ah-mad Lawan, said the intention of the Senate is not to take away the responsibility of the NDDC. “We believe that you have been doing your work. I know personally that you have been involved together as far as the NDDC is concerned. This is something that was put to vote. It is not strange to have an ad-hoc committee when we have a standing committee. “We in this 9th Senate set up ad-hoc committees. I recall that in 2011, I headed a committee to investigate privatization. There was a committee on BPE so this is just the workings of the Senate. All that we need to do is to ensure that our committees, whether the ad-hoc or the standing or special committees, do their work. I want to assure you that nothing affects the integrity of the committee. It is just to ensure that there is sanity in the NDDC.” However, the resolution of the Senate did not go down well with the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, who, on the May 8, in a press statement, faulted the Red Chamber on the proposed investigation. In a strongly worded statement signed by Anietie Ekong, Chief Press Secretary to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Akpabio said that the allegations were unfounded, claiming that the IMC had not spent any money close to N40 billion since its inauguration. He stated that only N18 billion had so far been approved by the IMC as contractual payments to contractors and not any figure close to the alleged N40 billion. “the IMC since its inception has only approved the total payment of N18 billion for contractual claims. The payments to contractors are all payments for contracts awarded by previous administrations, especially the payment for contracts below N50 million. “The present management has not awarded any single contract. So where is the bogey N40 billion coming from?” he querried. He added that such unfounded allegations were handiwork of vested interests, trying to paint the IMC black in covering their tracks as regards pillaging of the Commission’s resources over the years. The Minister, however, declared that his ministry and the Interim Management Committee of NDDC, were willing and ready to appear before any investigative public hearing on financial transactions of the Committee since its inception last year and not just three months being proposed for by the Senate. Akpabio boasted that the IMC would get a clean bill of health from the planned investigation while ignorance of those making spurious allegations would be exposed in the process. Meanwhile, the President of the Senate, clarified last week, that the investigation being carried out by the Upper Chamber into the finances of the NDDC, was to complement the ongoing forensic audit which was ordered by the Federal Government. Lawan stated this while inaugurating the seven-man ad hoc Committee on alleged financial recklessness in the NDDC, saying: “we are in total support of the President’s directive for the forensic audit of the finances of the NDDC, and this is, in some way, complimentary to that directive.”. The investigation, he said would avail the management of the comission an opportunity to defend the allegations against it, stating that the Senate had no predetermined position on the outcome of the probe. 