…cuts interest rates from 9% to 5% per annum   Citing the need to further mitigate the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on households, businesses and regulated institutions, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has reduced interest rates on its facilities through participating Other Financial Institutions (OFIs) from 9% to 5% per annum for one year effec-tive March 1, 2020. The apex bank, in a circular signed by the Director, Financial Policy and Regulation Department, Kevin Amugo, and issued yesterday, May 27, 2020 in Abuja, also announced that CBN intervention facilities obtained through participating OFIs – Microfinance Banks (MFBs), Primary Mortgage Banks, and Institutions, among others – will be given a further one-year moratorium on all principal repayments, also effective March 1, 2020. According to the circular, OFIs have equally been granted leave to consider temporary and time limited restructuring of the tenor and loan terms for households and businesses affected by COVID-19, subject to the recently issued guidelines for restructuring affected credit facilities in the OFI sub-sector. Expatiating on the decision of the bank, the Director, Corporate Communications Department, Isaac Okorafor, said the CBN management’s approval for the restructuring of credit facilities in the OFI sub-sector was in line with the bank’s desire to alleviate momentary strain on households, businesses and regulated institutions triggered by the lockdown due to COVID-19. He explained that the CBN would also continue to monitor developments and implement appropriate measures to safeguard financial stability and support stakeholders impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. It would be recalled that the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had in late March announced the apex bank’s approval of reliefs for loans in the banking industry as part of palliative measures to cushion the impact of the pandemic on the economy. In addition, he had stated that: “In view of the success of the Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR)) Policy in growing credit to the economy and reducing interest rates, the CBN would further support industry funding levels to maintain DMBs’ capacity to direct credit to individuals, households, and businesses. “We will also consider additional incentives to encourage extension of longer tenured credit facilities. DMBs are encouraged to continue to build capital buffers in order to improve resilience of the sector. The bank stands ready to provide liquidity backstops as and when required in view of its role as banker to the Federal Government and lender of last resort.”  