Ugo Obiayo is a theatre practitioner, lawyer, writer, teacher, and manager. She is the Chairman, Guild of Nigerian Dancers (GOND), Lagos State chapter. In this interview with
TONY OKUYEME, Obiayo, who is also a producer, talks about her career as an artiste, the dance profession, her experiences
and challenges   Most people know you today as an artiste, but you are a lawyer by training. Why did you not study theatre or dramatic arts?   I did not study Theatre or dramatic arts in the university, because the school I attended, Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) did not offer theatre or dramatic arts as a course. Although before ESUT, I had attended the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), where I did a Diploma certificate program in Mass Communication, and with the certificate, I applied for a direct entry into the university to study  Theatres Arts, but as the course was not listed in their program, and because I already bagged a Diploma in Communication, opted for Law.  Do you still practice as a lawyer or has the theatre taking over?   I do still practice as a lawyer. In fact, I am a member of the prestigious “Ikorodu” NBA Branch. And as for thinking Theatre may have taken over, let me say that in my case, both careers have found peaceful coexistence in both my personal and professional lives.   Today, I can categorically say that I apply both sides symbiotically, because they help my dance and legal practices immensely, I mean administratively and creatively. They are inseparable to me. You are the Chairman Guild of Nigerian Dancers (GONDP), Lagos State chapter. How has it been?  First of all, it is a privilege to be the first female Chairman of the Guild, and with such feat, I couldn’t have asked for a better professional sector to lead   The journey has been both tedious and enlightening. Tedious in the sense that so many aspects of dance as a profession and industry are yet to become aligned or structured and proper systems put in place to ensure standard in practice. Enlightening because I have been given the opportunity to experience first hand what my predecessors had to deal with while paving the path for dance to be recognised and perceived as serious business.   I, my executives and many fellow dance practitioners are endlessly working hard and pushing laudable concepts, programs, and processes that would project dance as an industry capable of becoming Nigeria’s most sought after economic boom. What are the challenges?   Just like every other profession, challenges must be surmounted,  which is what the dance industry tries to do at every point in time.   There are challenges such as lack of community based creative centres where dancers can connect to locally, in order to hone their skills, without having to travel too far or pay so much to do their craft. There are the issues of many dancers not wanting to key into personal development programs which are meant to support their career growth. These programs are designed for capacity building, unfortunately many do not bother to take advantage of them.  Challenges are numerous, but as an administrator, I also know that by dwelling on the challenges, I will only be limiting my time and chances of making things less challenging. So irrespective of these challenges, I simply continue to urge, encourage, teach, advice, support and provide templates through which we can overcome them.  Tell us about your experience growing up… My experience growing up here in Lagos State, Festac Town to be precise, is one loaded with unforgettable memories.   I am from a family of 10, consisting of seven children, an adopted brother and our parents. I grew up knowing what values, virtues, principles, friendship, love, unity and many more necessary human virtues were all about, because my parents were raised with those same those qualities.  My parents taught us to express ourselves in ways that allowed us see ours and any environment as home, as well as to always stand united in protecting one another from the attacks and ridicules of the world, which is why my best friends and greatest fans are my siblings.  I was allowed to see and be both sides of a coin, from being an extremely carefree and playful tomboy to learning how to be a young girl who could cook, clean and take care of the home and especially herself, in terms of personal hygiene, dress sense, walk, talk and inter human relations. Most of all, I was allowed to be me, myself and I because it allowed my parents know me, in order to guide me better. I was also raised by a creative mother and an administrative father, and I imbibed both traits, which have been applied in all that I do.  At what stage did acting (or dancing) come in as a profession?  The ability to act and dance or if I may say, “perform”, has always been in me. Like I noted earlier, my mother is a creative woman, so as a child and while in primary and secondary school, I received best results in drawing, painting and arts and craft. I also joined drama clubs and at birthday parties, I won lots of prices in dance competitions.  You are also a writer and producer. How do you handle all of the these?  Sincerely, I do not know how I handle both writing and producing Ironically, until recently, I didn’t know I was both, least of all being addressed in both nomenclature “writer and produce”. But tracing back to my childhood, I remember the letters I wrote to my father whenever I found it hard to vocalise my thoughts, the scrapbooks and pen pals I kept, letters to my parents while in school, the short stories that I wrote, a drama piece “We want to serve”, which I wrote, directed and produced, that came second place while in NYSC Orientation Camp in Jigawa State in 2006.  By the time I came into the creative industry, I joined forces with four other artistic individuals, and we launched a company called Jiimbay International Services. I was not only a director and performer in the company, I also helped to handled the production of our company projects to ensure that they always came out top notch.  Although only myself and one other member of the company still run Jiimbay, but back then we produced such projects like “Tears in the Rain”, “ Mama Funmi”, “28M”, “The Lagos Carnival”, “Zenith Youth Christmas Parade” and so many others.  You have also produced your own works, such as “Mama Funmi”, “Tears in the Rain”, “28M”, “Ella the Musical” and “Patches. What really inspired “Mama Funmi” and “Tears in the Rain”?   These productions were done at the start of our jointly established production company, Jiimbay, and being very expressive artistes that we were then and still are, our works were created with love and respect for true art and theatre. “Mama Funmi” was inspired by the story of Madam Funmi Ransome Kuti who was a figure that helped give spine to women empowerment in Nigeria.  “Tears in the Rain” was inspired by the ordeals and tribulations the average Nigerian artiste had to and still endures everyday in the bid to make his craft and talent worthy of appreciation and remuneration. What are your thoughts about dance practice in Nigeria today?  Dance practice has grown in leaps and bounds through the individual and collective efforts of dance practitioners all over Nigeria.  Although no one person should take credit for how dance has grown to the level it is today, yet, its growth would forever give credence to the efforts of so many great dancers both living and gone.   Dance practice in Nigeria has also become a career path for so many, including university graduates of other courses like myself   who never studied dance as a professional course.  Today, through the combined elements of talent, skills, passion, dedication, commitment, creativity, ability, love, learning, impact, remuneration and more, dance in Nigeria is being diligently practiced by its practitioners. Any regrets?   I don’t live my life by dwelling on what should or shouldn’t have, because somethings were never to be. However, if by some glitch in the comics of my life, a whiff of regret sips through, it would be the fact that I may not have had the opportunity (yet) to perform for you; Yes, you this wonderful individual reading my interview right now, and letting you know that I love you and that you hold a special place in my heart.  