  INTRODUCTION   In our outing last week, we saw how COVID-19 has completely grounded commerce, industry, law, medicine, science, socials and technology. Today, we shall take a look at a new era of conspiracy theories and speculations, and the dangers (the Quarantine Act (Repeal and Re-enactment) Bill, 2020) emerging from this pandemic.   A NEW ERA OF SPECULATIONS AND CONSPIRACY THEORIES   The coronavirus pandemic has changed the world as we know it forever. The world has been plunged into an era of speculations and conspiracy theories. Assumed or presumed rivalry between America and China, leading to the latter allegedly manufacturing Covid-19 disease in a Wuhan laboratory to enable it hoard the vaccine and cure, export it and profit thereby, are rife. Different “discovered cure” by scientists, doctors, pharmacists, traditional healers, and even by quacks, resonate daily. Conspiracy theories are widespread. There is fear everywhere. Tension, suspicion, wariness, stress, pressure, anxiety, all reign supreme.   THEORIES ON VACCINE; BILL GATES AND THE MARK OF THE BEAST   The most disturbing conspiracy theory, arguably, is that of a vaccine being introduced, that would force people to be implanted with a microchip, thus fulfilling the Biblical “mark of the beast” in Revelation 11:7, 13:1-18, 17:7-18, 19:18-20; and its number 666 or 616. Here, Bill Gates features prominently. the multi-billionaire, a renowned investor, philanthropist, software developer, business mogul and co-founder of Microsoft, Gates has a net worth of US $113 billion, nearly 4 times the combined wealth of Nigeria’s five richest men (US $ 29.9 billion). (To be concluded next week).   The question many people are therefore asking is, what does Bill Gates, the second richest man on the entire face of the earth, still want, at only 64? More money? Power? Influence? To rule the entire world? Just what? For over 10 years, Bill Gates is on record to have severally warned about a possible outbreak of a pandemic, and bemoaned the lack of preparation and systems in place to confront any infectious disease plagues. He had worked tirelessly with his wife, under the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, to work on sensitization, prevention and control of outbreak of infectious disease such as the present acute respiratory syndrome – coronavirus 2 (SARS – CoV2). He has criss-crossed the world, providing vaccines against polio, measles, tuberculosis, lassa/yellow fever, typhoid, small pox, malaria etc. he even donated to the World Health Organisation (WHO).   Nonetheless, the frontline soldier against infectious disease is being accused worldwide of attempting to manufacture a vaccine that will be used on people with a view to reducing world population. They even suggested that Gates desired to implant people with microchips, so as to track them. Speculations delve deeper to implore that Gates seeks to profit from this vaccine.   Some Christians even believe Gates is the forerunner of the Anti-Christ, with many apocalypticists warning of the “mark of the beast” (Revelation 13:16-18). With Gates saying on March 18, 2020, that “digital certificates” could trace who has recently been tested or vaccinated, a bedlam was unleashed that this digital certificate must include micro-chipping. This, is believed by many to lead to the second beast in Revelation 13: 16-18. It is in the midst of these frightening theories that Nigerians woke up one day to behold the spectre of Covid-19 vaccine law in the works.   THE FORCEFUL VACCINE FINALLY EMPLOYED IN NIGERIA   Worrisome, to say the least, therefore, is the fact that this vaccine, feared by many to bring destruction to mankind, may already be at play in Nigeria in the form of the Quarantine Act (Repeal and Re-enactment) Bill, 2020. In the midst of global worries and conspiracy theories, this Bill was introduced and hurriedly passed the first and second reading in just one day in the House of Representatives. Aside accusations that the Bill is literally copied word-for-word from a Singaporean Act, the Bill raises a lot of questions with no answers.   Many Nigerians wondered why the rush, for a vaccine not yet discovered? Why, even when the NCDC had denied contributing to the Bill? Must parents be forced to vaccinate their children at birth, when China, America and other Western nations more affected by Covid-19, have not done so? Are the sponsors playing the card of foreign interest groups to the detriment of Nigerians, some wonder? Why the unusual speed when the same legislators have not sponsored and pushed forward bills to force DISCO companies to compulsorily install pre-paid metres across Nigeria; to unbundle NNPC; to end gas flaring; to compel the Federal Government to fund research into local production of drugs and vaccines to tackle infectious diseases; to grow economy and reduce hunger; to create jobs; to locally produce vaccine, drugs, face masks, hand gloves, sanitizers, ventilators? Why use Nigerians as guinea pigs? These unanswered questions urgently need answers. Mr Speaker, where are you? Speak up, please.   SATANIC VERSES IN MOST SECTIONS OF THE BILL    There are so many satanic, fiendish and demoniacal verses (provisions) in the Bill that call for its total murder and immediate interment. We would now consider some of these satanic provisions of the Bill and the fundamental rights of citizens that it discards.  RIGHT TO PROPERTY   The Minister of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) are given sweeping powers in the Bill, within the environment of an intolerant government, are frightening to say the least. If signed into law, the Minister of Health is empowered by section 15 of the Bill to declare as and convert any premises (whether public or private) into an “isolation centre”. This section runs violently foul of the provisions of section 43 of the 1999 Constitution, which provides that every citizen of Nigeria shall have the right to acquire and own immovable property anywhere in Nigeria. Where a law prohibits the legal acquisition and ownership of property, such a law is unconstitutional and repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience. See the cases of OKON V. ENYIEFEM & ORS (2016) LPELR-41168 (CA); TEUMPENKENSO V. RIBADU & ANOR (2017) LPELR-42984 (CA); TIMOTHY V. OFORKA (2008) 9 NWLR (Pt. 1091) 204 at 216.   FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY, ASSOCIATION AND MOVEMENT; FREEDOM FROM UNLAWFUL ARREST AND DETENTION   Sections 16 and 17 of the satanic Bill empowers the DG of NCDC to forcefully disperse any group from an overcrowded place, and even close down the premises. This, without any court order. Yet, this, is a country where millions of Nigerians live in cramped or dingy spaces of utter squalor and filth. The new Sheriff-in-town DG, can also, under sections 13 and 19, close down any event, meting or public gathering and even accost and seize any person, for as long as he desires, by himself or through any Police officer, where such a person is found walking on the street, once the DG suspects (mere suspicion) that the person has an infectious disease. This is contrary to the right to liberty and freedom of movement of a citizen. See ABIOLA V ABACHA (1998) 7 HRLRA 458; and, ALABOH V BOYES (1984) 5 NCLR 830.   RIGHT TO PRIVACY AND LIBERTY TO CHOICE   Contrary to section 37 and 34(1) of the Constitution, sections 5(3) and 6 of the satanic Bill empower the DG to forcefully take blood or other samples from any person for purposes of public health surveillance. Additionally, section 8 makes it compulsory for health personnel treating any patient of infectious disease, to release to the DG, his patient’s medical details and records. This is in clear breach of the “uberima fidei” (utmost good faith) confidential relationship between a health worker and his patient; the type that exists between a cleric and his church goer; between a banker and a customer; between a lawyer and his client. Such sensitive information between them is not for public consumption.  ACCESS TO COURT IS A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT   The Bill even dares to bar access to court by declaring the decision of the DG on any appeal by any aggrieved person, as final. No law can restrict access to court. Such a law will be struck down as unconsitutional. See the case of AG, BENDEL STATE V. AG, FEDERATION (1982) 3 NCLR 1.   KILL THIS EVIL BILL BEFORE IT KILLS US ALL   This Bill is a sick Bill. It is evil in intention; malformed from conception; ill-informed; malignant and tumorous. It seeks to give the Minister of Health and DG of NCDC, untrammelled powers (in a supposed democracy), to trample on the fundamental rights of Nigerians with impunity. These corrosive powers will and must be ultimately abused because of their arbitrariness, capriciousness, whimsicality and the lack of inherent inbuilt checks and balances. The Bill is a ready recipe of disorganised disenchantment and dangerous ammunition in the hands of a non-performing, clueless, rudderless and intolerant government, to go after the jugular of the opposition, social critics, rights Activist, the Civil Society and perceived enemies of the government. NASS, kill this monstrous and maniacal Bill laden with satanic verses before it kills us all.    THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK   “To make laws that man cannot, and will not obey, serves to bring all laws into contempt.” (Stanton)   LAST LINE   Dear fellow Nigerians, kindly find time to always keep a weekly date with your humble servant, Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, OFR, Ph.D, FCIArb, LL.D, on the Nigerian project. Wishing you all a covid-19-free week and year. Our God is awesome and mighty. Fear not [Isaiah 43:1]  •Experts debunk claims     Amidst rising concerns over the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, Nigerians have advised the Federal Government to stop the deployment of 5G networks in the country.   This followed the widespread claims on social media that the latest technology for fast-speed internet was the cause… April 6, 2020 In "News" T hat the world is in a lockdown as a result of the Coronavirus or COVID-19 pandemic, which has jolted us to the reality of our vulnerability and helplessness, is not in contention. Whether one subscribes to the divine theory, the medical theory or the conspiracy theories, what… April 21, 2020 In "Education" Ogaga Ifowodo is a Nigerian lawyer, scholar, poet, columnist/public commentator and human rights activist. In this interview with TONY OKUYEME, the award-winning writer shares his  thoughts on the arts and culture sector, especially literature, against the backdrop of the lockdown following the Covid-19 pandemic. He also talks about challenges and… May 9, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"