The Chairman of the United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc., Tony Elumelu, has stated that the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic currently ravaging the world presents an opportunity to reset the African continent so that Africans can be empowered to become more productive and self-reliant. He stated this on Tuesday at the high-level roundtable discussions made up of African leaders, including Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the Special Envoy of the African Union on COVID-19 and Tidjane Thiam, who is also a COVID-19 Special Envoy responsible for mobilising international economic support for Africa. During… Justice Mohammed Liman of a Federal High Court in Lagos will, on June 2, hear a motion filed by a former Abia State Governor and Senate’s Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, seeking immediate release from prison. In the motion on notice, the former governor is asking the court to set aside his trial over alleged N7.1 billion fraud and subsequent conviction by Justice Mohammed Idris (now of the Court of Appeal). The motion for Charge No FHC ABJ/CR 56/2007, which was brought pursuant to Section 180 of the Administration… The importation of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) popularly known as petrol into Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude oil exporter, hit 20.79 billion litres in 2019. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), yesterday, which declared this in its latest report on petroleum products importations statistics for 2019, maintained that the high volume of the product’s import was buoyed by inefficiency of local refining capacity. The country, NBS noted,also imported 5.15 billion litres of Automotive Gas (AGO) known as diesel, and 128.11 million litres of Household Kerosene (HHK) known as kerosene in the… …okays N610m for Plateau State University   The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the sum of N623.7 million for the procurement of computers and printers for zonal and area commands of the Nigeria Customs Service. The Council, chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, also approved N610 million for the construction of a Faculty of Health Services at the Plateau State University, Bokkos, Plateau State. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, disclosed these while briefing State House Correspondents on the outcome of this week’s virtual meeting of the Council.… The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) may have spent an estimated N384 million in the fuelling of platforms engaged in counterinsurgency and counterterrorism operations in the North-East in the last four months. The amount was expended on purchase of Jet A-1 fuel, between January 1 and now, to power combat aircraft on air interdiction (AI), intelligence, surveillance and response (ISR), Battle Damage Assessment (BDA), close air support, as well as tactical air missions. The Air Task Force (ATF) is the component of Operation Lafiya Dole undertaking ongoing military operations against suspected… The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Lagos State Branch and the Health Care Providers Association of Nigeria (HCPAN) have directed all doctors in the state to proceed on an indefinite sit-at-home strike. The industrial action, which took effect from 6p.m. yesterday, was against the backdrop of conflicting directives on the enforcement of presidential lockdown/curfew and the attendant harassment of health workers by security operatives in the course of discharging their responsibilities. The NMA gave its directive in a statement jointly signed by Dr. Saliu Oseni and Dr. Ramon Moronkola, Chairman and… PDP seeks probe of contract scam in agric ministry     Angry contractors yesterday stormed the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Abuja, blocking the main entrance to the minister’s office in protest over the non-payment of the sum of N17 billion said to be the cost of contracts they executed in 2018. The contractors had on Tuesday threatened to seek legal redress over the matter, but their mass action yesterday was an indication that they had ran out of patience. The protest came same day the Peoples… CAJETAN MMUTA writes on the new battle fronts between the Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor and the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole after a failed mock primary election organised by a faction of the party loyal to Oshiomhole     Recently, a splinter group of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State chaired by Colonel David Imuse (rtd) and loyal to the immediate past governor and National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, organised a mock governorship primary… As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to ravage the world with the growing numbers of deaths and over four million cases, Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, seems to have proved his critics wrong given his pragmatic handling of the pandemic. Muritala Ayinla reports     In a few weeks’ time, Governor Babjide Sanwo-Olu will mark his first year in office as the 15th executive governor of Lagos State. Prior to his emergence as the governor of the state, many expressed doubts over his ability to govern the state that prides itself… … accuses Abuja politicians of plotting state of emergency     Governor Nyesom Wike has stated that oil workers coming from rigs have so far contributed 60 per cent to the coronavirus cases recorded in the state. That was even as the state government accused some Abuja based politicians of plotting the imposition of a state of emergeny in the state. Wike, who disclosed this yesterday when the Management Team of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited paid him a courtesy visit at Government House, Port Harcourt, recalled that recently, the Nigeria…