President Muhammadu Buhari will this year break the agelong tradition by conducting his Eid prayers with his family members at home. According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, the President, who hitherto would have performed the Eid with fellow Muslims at the National Mosque, resolved to a solemn worship in observance of the lockdown measures in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, put in place “to save lives and protect people from all dangers.” He added: “This is also in line with the directive of the Sultan of Sokoto and President General of the Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, suspending Eid congregational prayers across the country as well as the protocol against mass gathering issued by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. “Further to this, the President who has traditionally shared the joyous moment with top government officials, political leaders, community heads, Muslim and Christian religious leaders and children, will not be receiving the traditional homage in a bid to stop the coronavirus from further spreading.” IGP reinforces ban on ‘socio-religious’ gatherings As Muslim faithful in the country join their brethren across the world to celebrate the Eid-el Fitr, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has restated the ban on social and religious gatherings put place by the federal government, to curb the spread of the COVID- 19 pandemic. While congratulating the Muslim Ummah over the successful conclusion of Ramadan (fasting period), Adamu assured of adequate security before, during and after the celebration. The IGP’s position was contained in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba. He said: “The Force, however, reminds the citizens that the COVID-19 prevention regulation orders including the inter-state movement restriction orders, national curfew and the prohibition of mass socio-religious gatherings by the Federal Government in Lagos, Ogun, Kano states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and restriction orders by governments in some states of the federation, are still in force.” Ugwuanyi calls for prayers, abiding faith in God Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has enjoined Muslims and indeed, all Nigerians, to remain resolute in their abiding faith in God, through prayers and sacrifice, as the nation battles to contain the spread of the novel Coronavirus (COVID- 19). In a statement, Ugwuanyi, said: “This is an unusual time, not only for us as a people but for the entire humanity and the world.” FCT minister insists Moslems should pray at home The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Mallam Muhammad Bello, has said that as Muslim faithful celebrate this year’s Eid-el Fitr, they should pray at home, insisting that congressional prayers at Eid-grounds across the FCT would not be allowed. The minister called on Muslim residents within the territory to heed the advice of Jama’atul Nasril Islam (JNI), under the leadership of His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, who had earlier suspended the Eid congregational prayers in towns and cities across the federation, said Muslim should observe the Eid-il-Fitr prayers at home with family members or alone. CAN calls for prayers The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) yesterday congratulated the Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III and Muslim faithful in the country, for successfully completing this year’s Ramadan fast. In a letter addressed to the Sultan and signed by the General Secretary, Mr. Joseph Daramola, the body urged Muslim faithful not to cease praying for a speedy end to the COVID-19 pandemic. The statement reads: “The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) rejoices with, and congratulates the Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar 111, Head of Jama’atul Nasril Islam (JNI) and President General, the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) and all Nigerian Muslim faithful on their successful completion of this year’s Ramadan. “As we appreciate your coming to the end of this year’s Ramadan prayers, we implore you all not to cease from continuously praying for the peace, unity and stability of our country. “We wish to encourage Muslims in Nigeria and all over the world to continue to pray for a speedy end of COVID-19 in our country, continent and the entire world, to which the Christian Association of Nigeria is also fully committed.” Monarch hails faithful The Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti and Chairman of Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi (AFUNTADE 1), has congratulated Muslims in the state and Nigeria in general at the celebration of this year’s Eid-el-Fitri and for observing a peaceful fasting period. The monarch urged them to celebrate the festival in grand style by observing physical distancing and all the laid down guidelines by government in the current fight against COVID-19 pandemic. He said: “Wishing them great and happy celebrations. All religious leaders must work in tandem with government in the fight against the deadly corona virus.” Glo harps on lessons of Ramadan Telecommunications service provider, Globacom, has called on Muslims in Nigeria to use the lessons learnt during the 30-day Ramadan fast to positively impact their immediate community and Nigeria in general. The company said this in a congratulatory message to the Muslim ummah on the celebration of the end of the Ramadan season also known as Eid-el-Fitri. It counselled that since the season is that of charity, peacemaking and forgiveness, the Muslim brethren should remember to care for the poor and the needy in line with Allah’s injunction. “As Muslims savour the joy of Eid-el- Fitri, we pray that Almighty Allah will grant their prayers for peace, progress and development of the nation. We call on them to imbibe fully the tenets of Islam as taught by Prophet Mohammed”, Globacom noted. Eid-el-Fitri falls on the first day of Shawwal and is commemorated yearly by Muslims worldwide to mark the end of the Ramadan month of fasting. Ramadan is the fourth pillar of the Islamic faith and the ninth month in the Islamic calendar during which Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset for 29 or 30 days. 