Civil unrest flared and curfews were imposed in several major U.S. cities on Saturday as demonstrators took to the streets to vent outrage at the death of a black man shown on video gasping for breath as a white Minneapolis policeman knelt on his neck. From Los Angeles to Miami to Chicago, protestsmarked by chants of “I can’t breathe” – a rallying cry echoing the dying words of George Floyd – began peacefully before turning unruly as demonstrators blocked traffic, set fires and clashed with riot police, some firing tear… The number of people infected by the coronavirus around the world has passed 6 million, as the pandemic forced Donald trump to postpone the G7 summit in Washington. According to the latest data from the Johns Hopkins University tracking site, there have now been more than 6,059,000 cases of the disease around the world, with 369,126 deaths, reports The Guardian. More than 1.7 million of those cases have been registered in the United States, and its continued spread in the world’s richest nation has forced the US president to abandon plans… NCDC reports 553 new COVID-19 cases, highest single-day infection *As four-month-old coronavirus patient discharged in Kaduna COVID-19 cases in Nigeria increased further on Saturday with 553 cases reported by the country, even as authorities intensify efforts to flatten the curve of the pandemic. The new cases were confirmed by the specialist agency, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Twitter on Saturday night. This takes the country’s total infections to 9,855, out of which 2856 have been discharged with 273 losing their lives. Data from the NCDC showed that… •Why online teaching is important, say proprietors       Many parents in Nigeria are at a loss on how to cope with their children’s online coaching, which they said is not only expensive, but also stressful, due to the fact that they have to provide their wards with necessary equipment such as laptops, cell phones, earphones, air time, data, tablets and of course, fuel to power generating sets, in case there is power outage in order to enable the pupils/students join the virtual classes.  Few other parents abinitio, decided… •18th GMD died 3 years after losing son, sister, mother     T he immediate-past Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Maikanti Kachalla Baru, is dead. He was 60. His successor, Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari, who announced this in a Tweet, stated that Baru died on Friday night.     His death has attracted condolences from President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, who collectively expressed sympathy with family and friends of the former Group Managing Director (GMD).     Kyari… Juliet Bumah       Dave’s heart flutters. He draws the papers towards him, and gives the doctor an inquisitive stare. His heart beats wildly. Without looking at the laboratory result, he raises his eyebrow.     “Spill it doc,” he says dryly and clears his throat. The doctor stares at him grimly and asks, “How long have you been married?”     That question throws Dave off balance.     “Em…er…we’re getting married,” he replies, wondering if he had said anything at all.     “Oh… Deborah Oluwaseyi Joshua, professionally known as Seyi Shay has one of the most captivating stage performances. The singer, songwriter after returning to Nigeria from the United Kingdom is on a journey to become bigger than her dreams. Added to her singing, she has also discovered other hidden talents in acting. Blessed with a lovable character, Seyi Shay describes herself as a hopeless romantic in this interview with Ifeoma Ononye     We got to know the stuff Seyi Shay was made of in Ragga Ragga music video and the kind… Sen. Nicholas Olubukola Tofowomo represents Ondo South Senatorial District on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and he is the Vice Chairman, Land Transport Committee in the National Assembly. In this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, he speaks on the recent disclosure that some memos and appointments were made by the late Chief of Staff, Abba kyari, without the approval of President Muhammadu Buhari, fallout of COVID-19 as well as the need for the next governor of Ondo State to emerge from Ondo South, among other national issues… As part of activities marking his first year in office, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, in this interview, reviews his activities in the last one year, stating among other things that revamping the state’s economy, refocusing on agriculture and establishment of the Lagos-Ogun Joint Commission are critical to the states development   Generally, what is your assessment of the state you were elected to govern?     Ogun State is largely agrarian. It has a large expanse of land and covered predominantly by tropical rainforest and has wooded savanna… President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew Alhaji Ibrahim Dauda is dead.   According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, Dauda died in Daura, Katsina State, following a prolonged illness. In a condolence message, the President said the death has robbed the family and the Daura community of one of its finest gentlemen.     “I am deeply touched and devastated by the passing of yet another family member, a man who had demonstrated amazing kindness and honesty in all his dealings,” the President said.…