CAJETAN MMUTA writes on the new battle fronts between the Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor and the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole after a failed mock primary election organised by a faction of the party loyal to Oshiomhole   Recently, a splinter group of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State chaired by Colonel David Imuse (rtd) and loyal to the immediate past governor and National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, organised a mock governorship primary for some aspirants for the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. Indications point that the sole aim by eggheads of the unilateral exercise is to wrestle power from the incumbent governor of the state, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. Also, it was designed to select, what could pass for a perfect match and credible governorship candidate who has all it takes in character and charisma to confront Governor Obaseki. However, not a few individuals or groups were shocked at the drama that trailed the outcome. Surprisingly, much as membership of the party behind the process was drawn from across the 18 local government areas and three senatorial districts of the state, the end smacked of self-defeat; blame game, regrets and lamentations as well as lost venture. It was evident that the mask men behind the mock exercise may have shot themselves on the foot. This is given the inglorious expositions and alarmed revelations that trailed the plot hatched in the wee hours of the night and perfected with dusty echoes of uncertainty in the day time. Admittedly, the mission of those who posed to have known better was to embarrass Obaseki with dangerous schemes targeted to forcefully edge him out at all costs from the forthcoming governorship contest in the state. All things being equal, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed June 16 to July 6 for party primaries, where delegates, are expected to converge on the capital town of Benin to make loud pronouncements through democratic process to elect their candidates in line with set rules and democratic standards. The choice candidates are expected to fly the flags of participating parties and in the process, herald full blown political campaign to solicit for votes ahead of the September 19 governorship poll. At the moment, the factional APC leaders and members under Col. Imuse as chairman parade the likes of 2016 governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu; former Minister of State for Works, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi; former deputy governor, Dr. Pius Odubu; 2012 governorship candidate of PDP, General Charles Airhiavbere (rtd); Chief Solomon Edebiri and Mr. Saturday Iyalekhue as governorship aspirants for the epic contest. Out of the six aspirants, Arhiavbere, Ize-Iyamu and Odubu had in 2016 slugged it out with Obaseki, who was the APC governorship candidate. Today, beyond pretenses, both Obaseki and Oshiomhole have fallen apart and are now sworn enemies with their loyalists divided alongside the latest quest and battle for the soul of the Dennis Osadebay Avenue Government House in Benin City. Interestingly, Governor Obaseki is staging a comeback for a second term in office. No doubt, the APC family is split and may likely go to the polls as a divided family. It leaves therefore a strong question about Obaseki’s ease towards succeeding in the war against mounting opposition groups, such as forces of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), and others determined to pull the rug off his feet. While the governor and his foot soldiers sharpen the needed grind machines to ward of any obstructions on their path to telling a success story, the eggheads of Oshiomhole’s camp under the guise of EPM are stopping at nothing for a spoil game. A fortnight ago, members of the EPM, a group formed by those with strong loyalty to Oshiomhole, to bring aggrieved members of APC under one umbrella following some misgivings against the governor’s stand to run the affairs of Edo State without distractions and undue pressure as against what was the wasteful old order of running government affairs; converged on the residence of Chief Lucky Imasuen, a former deputy governor in the ancient capital City for a mock primary election. The exercise, however, was deadlocked. Those in attendance dispersed in anger and disappointment. The outcome had further shored up deep ill-feelings amongst the party members leading to the disruption by disenchanted members of activities of the committee set up for the screening process. The work of the committee chaired by former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and member representing Owan Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hon. Julius Ihonvbere, was transparently evident of its goal and biases; no wonder the immediately postponement to pave way for further consultations on how best to ensure a peaceful conduct of the exercise. A fresh meeting is said to have been reschedule this month to midwife an acceptable choice of a credible gubernatorial candidate. It was learnt that the meeting erupted in chaos during the review and agreement by members on the proper modalities for the shadow election. Trouble started amid arguments on whether to allow the 14 elected members of the Edo State House of Assembly who are yet to resume sittings, to vote during the exercise. Some party leaders at the meeting had agreed that the members- elect should vote but others strongly resisted it after reading a dangerous handwriting on the wall. The uncertain situation sparked serious division among the ranks of the party, especially, when it became clear that most of 14 elected lawmakers are said to be supporting the aspiration of Pastor Ize-Iyamu. One of the governorship aspirants from Edo South Senatorial zone stoutly questioned the number of delegates from Edo North and Edo Central senatorial zones meant for the exercise. The mock contest was said to be fierce among the trio of Ize-Iyamu, Odubu and Ogiemwonyi. Ogiemwonyi, who was taken aback by the ugly drama, stormed out of the venue of the exercise following alleged observed shoddy deals. According to source close to the venue of the meeting, “The consensus arrangement was led by and presided over by Hon Prof. Julius Ihonvbere before it was scuttled in Chief Lucky Imasuen’s house. Some of the aspirants believed that the 14 lawmakers will support Ize-Iyamu and initially opposed their inclusion before it was agreed that they should be part of it. An aspirant also raised concerns about the number of delegates from Edo Central and Edo North. Some of the aspirants had stepped down for Ize-Iyamu, which boosted his chances but others raised issues that led to the disruption, which we believe one of them sponsored and then the eventual postponement. The composition of the delegates if it was not disrupted would have given an edge to Ize-Iyamu who seems to have majority support.” Allegations of financial inducement to the tune of about five million naira for some of the delegates and committee members was said to have rocked the exercise. Names of top moneybags and national leaders of the party were dropped as allegedly behind the move to skew the process of the mock deal allegedly in favour of Pastor Ize-Iyamu. It was gathered that, aside Pastor Ize-Iyamu being propped up for the plum job by Oshiomhole, APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and a billionaire business and oil magnate, Captain Hosa Okunbo, are also said to be favourably disposed to having Pastor Ize-Iyamu for the APC’s ticket. These power brokers are believed to be on a harder push and behind mounting pressure on Oshiomhole to behind the scene postures, impress it on other aspirants to step down for the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) pastor and Orhionmwon born politician as a good match for Obaseki at the electoral warfront. Pastor Ize-Iyamu as then PDP candidate was touted to have almost overtaken Oshiomhole/Obaseki firepower at the polls during the 2016 governorship exercise in the state. At the moment, Oshiomhole and his once close home boy, confidant and political associate, Governor Obaseki, have gone for the broke following the intractable internal party feud over the control of the party structure and the state legislature, which almost led to grinding to a halt of the wheel and ship of government and governance of the Heart Beat state since the past one and half years. Sadly, members of the proscribed EPM have persistently rolled out assault tanks against the government of the day with endless pour of distractive ointment and criticisms aimed at kneeling the Obaseki’s government. The proscribed body has vowed not give the government a breathing space for resolving not to share and loot the people’s collective patrimony for pot belly and few self-seeking politicians. On his part, the Oredo born governor and politician, backed by members of the Obaseki/Shaibu Movement (OSM), is not folding his hands to watch the grueling rage of opposition to nose dive the government of the day in full flight for effective delivery of dividends of democracy. However, the war of wits and funds has raged endlessly with the actors now resorting to discreet and corrosive strategies to edge each other out of the ring. It is worthy of mention that the Obaseki’s over three and half years on the saddle has been eventful with landmark testimonies of achievements in infrastructural and sectorial reforms. The echo of his feat has put the state on the path of history for a glorious future and a departure from the old order. Sadly, detractors and opposition groups are bereft of good reasons to ponder rather their thirst is how best to cow the government and governance system through unholy attacks against it for not putting ‘something on the table for all to share and loot.’ This to them is the best way to give human face to government and it has been reasons for the inglorious political spoils in the state. While the fire of political hatred rages, there is still a sour taste of irreconcilable questions of Oshiomhole’s seemed double-speak on his support for Obaseki’s government and his soft stand on the activities of APC members coated in EPM turncoat to discredit and undermine the powers of a sitting governor and government in the state. The questions against this backdrop are: How come the much talked about the Chief Bisi Akande-led reconciliation committee on the crisis in Edo State is still in limbo and remains a proposal that till date cannot stand the test of time? Why would the national leadership of a ruling party keep musing when its house at the home front is on fire while the 14 members elected under the ruling party’s platform keep roaming the streets of Abuja without a definite stand of the party; who is bankrolling and giving fuel to the locomotive engine of self-destruct of the EPM? While the internal dispute and name calling linger, some analysts have further asked: why has Oshiomhole refused to tell the world in clear language on why him and his political godson can’t flow again; why is now that Edo Central zone after many years at the ‘political bus stop,’ to take their turn, that another Edo South person should take over from Obaseki, a dangerous move that will definitely alter the political equation of the state. Why should elders and leaders of Edo State now resort to lying tongues and deceit? When has it become a norm that those were termed devil incarnate and voodoo politicians have suddenly become saints? No doubt, except Governor Obaseki is allowed to complete his eight years tenure, any attempt to brood another person from Edo South to take over from him, means that the populous south with seven local government areas will have to remain in the saddle for 12 years and the slot will shift again to Edo North, leaving Edo Central in the limbo. Intriguingly, both the state government and members of the EPM loyal to Oshiomhole had few weeks ago been locked in a war of words over the latter’s alleged continued violation of the guidelines set by the former for the fight against spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The government blasted Oshiomhole and his political allies for the continued violations of the directives by state and Federal Governments to halt the spread of coronavirus and in the process cause crisis in the state by organising political gatherings through the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM). The state Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Hon. Paul Ohonbamu and the Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osabie, in a joint statement in Benin said the illegal meeting termed “APC faction mock primary” organised by Comrade Oshiomhole does not only go against the directives of the state and Federal Government but also jeopardizes efforts to contain COVID-19, thereby endangering the lives of Edo people. They said Oshiomhole’s actions were not only reprehensible but also callous and selfish, as he has continued his quest to cause crisis in the state and destabilize the state’s chapter of the APC amid COVID-19 pandemic. The state government added that Comrade Oshiomhole must be called to order, stressing that “the President should know that Oshiomhole’s orchestrated disharmony is a testimony of his desire to re-enact Rivers and Zamfara in Edo State. The action is not only antiparty, but a confirmation in some circles of a deliberate decimation of our great party for clandestine ambitions. “It must be said that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic not shown remorse for the persons lost to this invisible enemy. While Nigeria was losing eminent sons and daughters to the pandemic, for instance, he released videos of himself in a gym house, performing aerobics, as if mocking the dead. This was at a time the entire country was mourning the death of the Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari. These among other indiscretions, have painted Comrade Oshiomhole in the most despicable light and leaves much to be desired of his humanity.” But the Publicity Secretary of the faction of the APC in the state loyal to Comrade Oshiomhole, Mr. Chris Azebamwan in his reaction, said: “One would have thought that after they recently got their nose bloodied in the courts, Obaseki and his hirelings would desist from dragging Oshiomhole into any and all things that happen in Edo State, real or imagined. “In their usual hysteria and desperation to smear the name and image of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Edo State government bent the truth and went to town with propaganda of misinformation. As part of our corporate social responsibility, the APC in Edo State organised a forum for wellmeaning individuals within our fold to put resources together to assist our government and the vulnerable in our society to cope with the challenges of partial lockdown. In doing so, we were mindful of the relevant guidelines by the World Health Organisation, the National Taskforce on COVID-19 and Edo State government. “The latest in their litany of wailings is that Comrade Oshiomhole caused a mock primary to be conducted in Edo State. Nothing could be farther from the truth. The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which Comrade Oshiomole heads, has not released guidelines for the conduct of primaries in Edo State. One would ask therefore, on what basis the Edo APC would undertake such an exercise as claimed by Osarodion Ogie.” Azebamwan stressed further that “to further accuse Comrade Oshiomhole of deploying soldiers and policemen to the venue of the imaginary primaries is to ascribe to him, powers that he does not possess. We are not aware that as National Chairman of the APC, he has command authority over Police and Military personnel.” As a follow up, Pastor Joseph Osagiede, the Publicity Secretary of the APC loyal to Governor Obaseki, called on officials of the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) and the police to arrest, quarantine and isolate all the party stakeholders including elders and leaders as well as some members of the National Assembly for violating the social distancing and stay at home order and other directives by the federal and state governments against the spread of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic in the state. He said the arrest of the party and EPM members had become important to ascertain if they are safe in view of the ravaging spread of the virus across the country. Osagiede at a press briefing expressed disappointment that the mock exercise allegedly orchestrated by the EPM in collaboration with Comrade Oshiomhole came at a time the world including the country and the state are locked in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, now ravaging lives of many while others are battling for their health. The action he said was in contravention of existing laws and guidelines set out by the federal and Edo State governments prohibiting individuals and groups from violation of the social distancing and stay-at-home order. He added that the party and state government have petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari on the actions of Comrade Oshiomhole and members of the EPM aimed at undermining Governor Obaseki, the state government and welfare of people of the state for their selfish reasons. The party also urged President Buhari to “cause an inquiry to be carried out, to determine why men of the armed forces should be involved in such nefarious and provocative action capable of causing chaos and anarchy, thus bringing the army into disrepute.” 