The State was virtually held to ransom, the stakes were high as Urhobo youths, a large component of the deprived and neglected, were up in arms to press home their demands for recognition and compensation for several decades of neglect in the midst of the devastation of the environment as a result of oil exploration and exploitation activities.   The effects were spontaneous. Oil exploitation and the attendant oil revenue accruing to the state dipped. This was happening at a time the state and the country were facing serious recession. As if that was not bad enough, their compatriots among the Ijaw joined the fray as bitterness found common confluence. While the agitation lingered, the state suffered economic downturn that only the economic savvy of the governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, guaranteed the seamless functioning of both government and governance. The situation was so tense; less endowed administrators would have resorted to a fire brigade approach.   As the undeclared war raged and the state’s economy plummeted, efforts were on to persuade the youths to abandon their resort to force and violence, however justified their cause might be. It was not just the youths, the federal authorities resorted to strong arm tactics, which exacerbated the situation. But the governor was bent on strengthening the security in the state to deter both the agitation and criminal elements.   As the two sides bickered, Governor Okowa in his characteristic genial disposition, reached out to the warring youths through informal means. It usually takes time to get these youths to back down. But the governor persevered. Meanwhile, insecurity propagated and fueled by Fulani herdsmen who are armed with sophisticated weapons competed for prominence. Apparently feeling that government attention was only focused on the youths, the armed herdsmen increased their kidnapping and other criminal activities making life very difficult, especially for rural dwellers. But the governor’s approach stopped an all-out war between rural dwellers and herdsmen.   The undeclared all-out war with the youths was getting resolved but that of the armed herdsmen increased. This gave rise to the search of alternatives, especially strengthening the security apparatus in the State. Unknown to many, the governor was walking on the delicate and difficult terrain of convincing the military to establish more military bases in the state. Seeing this through was as difficult as arresting the violent agitation of the youths and stemming the tide of wanton killing, maiming, rape and extortion unleashed on innocent Deltans by the Fulani herdsmen.   The governor’s approach also gave rise to the 181 Battalion at Agbor. These military bases were established to lend helping hand to the police who, sometimes, appear to be overwhelmed. But getting the military to establish bases in the State, was herculean. The governor, reticent as ever, went to work as it appeared the herdsmen were shifting base northwards in the State.   To the surprise of everyone, it was announced that the military is going to establish a brigade at Asaba. Few believed. But the Brigade was formally launched at Asaba and has since gone to work. What is of utmost importance is the increase in disturbances, which necessitated increase in the presence of security operatives. All these through the smart and noiseless moves of a determined administrator. As we write, there are still pockets of kidnapping going on in the northern parts of the State, especially at Abavo, Onicha Olona, Iselle –Azagba and Okpanam areas. While criticisms are legion, it is left to imagine what would have become of the State if security operatives did not increase their presence in the State.   The Governor did not stop at attracting security agencies to the state. In march, he donated thirty five vehicles to these agencies. During the presentation, he praised them for their resilience but challenged them to do more. He complained about the brazen way the criminally minded herdsmen invade communities at will, attempt to or take over farmlands while brandishing AK 47 assault rifies. He particularly called on the Federal Government to speak up and direct security agencies on what should be done to adequately tame the excesses of the armed herdsmen. Traditional rulers have weighed in. In a meeting with the State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hafiz Inuwa, behind closed doors, they urged him to direct sufficient energy towards arresting the persistent menace of kidnapping among other criminal tendencies of the herdsmen in and around the State. But in an interview with a national newspaper, Mr. Inuwa accused some of the traditional rulers of virtually conniving with the herdsmen through the sale of land and making financial gains from this.   The chairman of the Traditional Rulers Council in Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor who is also the Obi of Owa, denied the accusation of the Commissioner of Police. In all, buck passing does not help the situation. Security agencies should demonstrate greater commitment. Intelligence gathering is key. Herdsmen are not spirits. There are Fulanis among all the security outfits. They should be used in tracking these marauding herdsmen wherever they are. To kill and maim, rape and destroy farmlands without trace has become inexcusable. The security agencies should earn the respect of the people through their sterling performances. There are several instances that leave disturbing cases that yawn like toothless mouths, which security agencies themselves cannot explain. It is sincerely hoped that they will increase the efforts and commitment capable of restoring the confidence of the people in their ability to secure lives and property.   The claim of collaboration of locals remains disturbing. The police should have their facts. These locals should be arrested and treated like the criminals among herdsmen. It is the most effective deterrence. Communities too, should increase their watch and surveillance both of the herdsmen and their members to fish out collaborators among them.   It must however be noted that, there is virtually no state, country or society that is crime free. Otherwise, countries with advanced technologies should have existed without crimes and criminals. There is need for all to join in the fight against crimes in all their ramifications. The governor’s methodical and silent approach has been very fruitful but it also behooves citizens to cooperate with the government and security agencies to stem the incessant economic sabotage of farmers and outright kidnapping brigandage and needless bloodletting.    Frank writes from Delta 