Obasa vs traducers: Who blinks first?   With daggers drawn and gloves off, the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa and an online news medium, SaharaReporters, are breathing down each other’s neck over reports of alleged corrupt practices in the state legislature. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  W ith his cheerful and pleasant demeanor at the plenary session of the Lagos State House of Assembly, which he presided last Thursday, Speaker Mudashiru Obasa did not appear ruffled in any way over the bricks of corruption allegation being thrown at him by an online news agency, SaharaReporters.   Over the past weeks, SaharaReporters has been churning out series of corruption allegations and fraudulent practices against the embattled speaker in particular and the state Assembly in general, a profiling the speaker and his colleagues not only refuted but also threatened to drag the medium to court for libel and other charges.   In its latest allegation, SaharaReporters, owned by a presidential candidate in the 2019 election, Omoyele Sowore, who was recently granted bail for treason, money laundering and cyberstalking by a court of law, claimed that Obasa approved the sum of N258 million for the printing of invitations cards for the inauguration of Lagos lawmakers two months after the event held.   “It can only take a gullible Nigerian to believe a story of this nature. One would think that the writer was not in his right frame of mind as he put his pen to paper. What was approved for the printing of invitation cards for the event was just N1,130,000 but how Sahara Reporters arrived at N258,835,000 beats the imagination of any sane person,” Tolani Abati, the speaker’s spokesperson explained.   Obasa is no small fry when it comes to Lagos politics. In fact, as the state’s number three man, he wields so much influence and has also become a kingmaker of some sort in the last five years, especially when it comes to local politics in his Lagos West Senatorial district.   Just like everyone that made any impact in politics from Lagos over the past 20 years, Obasa is also a product of the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s political family. In fact, his ascension to the speakership seat is to the credit of the former Lagos governor who has been in the driving seat of who gets what, when, and how in the state.   The intervention of Tinubu, who is the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in the choice of leadership of the state Assembly has been the final ratification on who and who becomes part of the principal officers including the speaker of the House and Obasa is no exception.   Obasa glowingly said about his political godfather on his inauguration as the speaker of the current Assembly for the second successive period: “Let me particularly thank our party leadership starting from our Governor Emeritus, Asiwaju of Nigeria, His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a discerning, financially ingenious, reliable and able leader whose brilliance made it possible for us to have a Federal Government that shares same progressive mind with us in this side of the country.”   But that is not all to Obasa’s entrance and rise in politics, he is a product of grassroots politics and he achieved this through dint of hard work, perseverance and doggedness. Speaking on his humble beginning, he told a national newspaper that he started life just like every other child who believes in hustling to earn a living.   “I grew up in Papa Ashafa area of Agege, and while there, there was hardly anything I did not do apart from engaging in armed robbery. Talking about doing one activity or the other, there is nothing people do to make money that I did not do. However, I did them out of my own volition, not because my father could not send me to school, but close friends of mine were always in one engagement or the other.  “We would go to Agege Market to sell nylon bags, then we sold nylon bags in dozens, we did bus conductor, labourer, just mention it. If your father is not Aliko Dangote, you have to find something to do to cross to another level in life,” Obasa, who represents Agege Constituency I said about himself.  Obasa first contested elections as a local government delegate to the state congress during the Social Democratic Party (SDP) era to elect the party’s candidates. He was elected a Zonal Chairman under the United Nigeria Congress Party (UNCP) for Alaagba Zone, Agege. He became a member of the ward executives for Ward E, Agege Local Government during the UNCP era. He also served as the chairman of the Campaign Committee for Local Government Election for the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Agege Local Government Area until he was elected a councilor in 1999. He got elected into the state Assembly in 2003 and he has been part of the legislature since then.   But the aphorism that uneasy lies the head that wears the crown became a reality for the speaker and he had contentions to stand from both within and outside the legislative chamber.   While he had a relatively calm sailing as the speaker in his first term between 2015 and 2019, his second coming has, however, been dogged with one issue or the other. Of course, his up and down travails was adduced in some quarters to be the exit and alleged frosty relationship between him and his ex-ally in the state legislature, Senator Bayo Osinowo (Pepper), who now represents Lagos East Senatorial District in the Senate after his dominating spell in the Assembly for four consecutive terms.   Some analysts averred that Obasa’s meteoric rise in the politics of the state and Assembly cannot be divorced from the sole influence of Osinowo, who has a deeper and cordial relationship with Tinubu, which spans the days of struggle against military regimes.   A former member of Lagos House of Assembly who served as a principal officer in the House told New Telegraph that “the positioning of Obasa was done by Pepper and since the senator was the de-facto leader, no one could challenge the system. Of course, in politics, you don’t trust anyone with power.”    With the 9th Assembly first year anniversary just a few days away, the Assembly has had a fair share of dark clouds. In early March, the speaker’s announcement of the removal of two principal officers, Rotimi Abiru (Chief Whip) and Olumuyiwa Jimoh (Deputy Majority Leader) and the indefinite suspension of two members of the House, Hon. Moshood Olanrewaju Oshun (Lagos Mainland Constituency 2) and Kazeem Raheem Adewale (Ibeju/Lekki Constituency 2), created some anxious moments within the once stable legislative arm.   Less than 24-hours after the demotion, the Assembly effected the selections of two lawmakers as a replacement for the affected officers that were removed in the persons of Noheem Adams from Eti-Osa Constituency 1 (as Deputy Majority Leader), while Mojisola Meranda, representing Apapa Constituency 1 was elected as the new Chief Whip.   Announcing the shocking shake-up during the House plenary of March 9, Obasa, said: “The House is the hope of the people and the heartbeat of democracy and that it should be well guarded.” However, after the intervention of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) and APC National Leader, Tinubu, Obasa reinstated the suspended lawmakers. But the still water of the Assembly had already plummeted and there is no hiding the ominous bad blood in the ranks of the once-cordial lawmakers, especially from those who got axed.    Of course, not a few analysts attempted to link the suspension of the lawmakers to the cold war between Obasa and Osinowo. Interestingly, both men continue to speak highly of each other in public, insisting that all is well between them and that they are as close as ever. But those in the known think otherwise, affirming that the political gambit between the duo is just like play ing cat and mouse game.  Setting the pace for what has now become a daily feast on its digital platform, SaharaReporters on March 22 published a report alleging that the speaker has been using a list of companies to award contracts to himself and launder public funds. The report revealed that Obasa primarily used De Kingrun Multipurpose Nigeria Ltd for securing and implementing contracts from the parliament and ministries.   The medium claimed that based on documents it sighted, Obasa is a direct beneficiary at De Kingrun Multipurpose Nigeria Ltd, but to ensure that the company is not directly linked to him, the speaker used the names of his father, wife and children to register it.   Obasa, who denied the allegation of awarding contracts to himself during a plenary session in March, not only described the medium as “Sahara Liars,” but dared it to prove the allegations.  According to him, there was no relationship between De Kingrun Multipurpose Nigeria Ltd and the House. He challenged the medium to publish the contract date, location, amount and agreement.  “Let me also join you to emphasise that what was published by ‘Sahara Liars’ has nothing to do with me. The fact remains that De Kingrun has no relationship with the Lagos State House of Assembly.  “I am challenging ‘Sahara Liars and Failures’ to publish if there is any. At least, they have alleged and they must be able to prove by giving out the name of such contracts, the amount, the location, the date, and the contractual agreement. But, I am saying emphatically that there is no relationship between De Kingdrun and Lagos State House of Assembly. So, Sahara Liars and Failure, you can prove me wrong,” Obasa said.   SaharaReporters also alleged at another time that Obasa, through a proxy company, made the state Assembly to approve N17 million for the maintenance of his personal residence, guesthouse and office.   But rising stoutly for the speaker, members of the State Assembly debunked the allegation that Obasa spends N17million monthly on the maintenance of his residence and guest house. The Clerk of the House, Mr. Azeez Sanni, who called the attention of the lawmakers to the report published by SaharaReporters on April 26, explained that the report was erroneous.    Sanni said: “A sum covers the various expenditure of the full offices; the Office of the Chief of Staff, Special Advisers (Budget, Political Matters), the office of the Chief Press Secretary, Special Assistant (Protocol), Special Assistant (Research and Development), Special Assistant (Women Affairs) and 15 Special Assistants engaged to attend to the growing demand and specialty of the House.   “I must also state that these expenditures have been in existence prior to the emergence of Speaker Obasa. In fact, it is dated back as far as 2012 when it was N27million monthly and I have the document here to show that the expenditure had been in existence since 2012.”   He added that the report by SaharaReporters was a deliberate attempt to tarnish the image of the House of Assembly. “On the allegation that the company was registered in 2015, how come the company in question was just engaged in 2018?” the Clerk queried.   While condemning the media report, the lawmaker representing Somolu Constituency I and Chairman House Committee On Finance, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, said SaharaReporters was not professional and ethical in their style of journalism, saying that the media outfit was known for tarnishing brand image and inciting the public by deliberately publishing misleading reports.  Also, the Chairman on House Committee on Information, Strategy and Security, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, added that the medium did not reach out to the House to get their own side of the story, adding that the report was malicious and should be totally ignored. Still not done, the medium a few days ago claimed that Obasa received N53 million from the state coffer’s to travel for an official trip to the United States with his alleged mistress.   Within the same time, the medium also alleged that the speaker approved the sum of N258 million for the printing of invitation cards for the inauguration of lawmakers two months after the event was held.   But addressing the allegations in one thread over the weekend, Obasa in a response by his media aide, Abati, said the goal of the critics were to fabricate damaging information against him and clear his political profile out of ways ahead of 2023.   The speaker assured that the House under him will continuously furnish the public on its activities and keep Lagosians abreast on financial dealing of elected officers, adding that “It is no longer news that Obasa has become a household name in major parts of Lagos, nay Nigeria, and this is sending strong shivers down the spine of the enemies. There is not just palpable fear, but sleepless nights, which is just starting.”   The speaker further said: “Let us start with the latest disparaging story about how the Speaker supposedly approved N258,835,000 to print invitation two months after the inauguration of the 9th Assembly. It can only take a gullible Nigerian to believe a story of this nature. One would think that the writer was not in his right frame of mind as he put his pen to paper.  “What was approved for the printing of the invitation card for the event was just N1,130,000. But how did our critics arrived at N258,835,000 beats the imagination of any sane person. And for the avoidance of doubt, the entire inauguration of the 9th Assembly can be summed into a total of N61.3 million as the document accompanying this response shows. A breakdown of the expenses is also glaring for every discerning mind to see that SaharaReporters is nothing but a tool for blackmail.    “To clear the air on another claim made against the speaker argued that the speaker who had been an advocate of transparency and astute advocate against public officer’s sending of taxpayer’s money on personal welfare could not have approved the sum of N45.7 million for a 2019 Christmas party that was never held.   “Aside from the Christmas party, Obasa noted that the said N53.7 million approved by the speaker for a trip to United States with an imaginary mistress was an indication that his critics have shallow knowledge of the House protocol.”   He added: “The event was even an opportunity to recognise and honour deserving staff who had excelled in the course of their careers. The event was to Georgia, United States, for 2019 US-Nigeria Trade and Investment Global Summit, which was billed to hold between September 26 and 28, 2019. As is customary, the Speaker went for the event on a different flight from the lawmakers and others.   “However, on getting to the US, the summit was discovered to have clashed with a United Nations event which took pre-eminence on Nigerian officials. Thus, the Speaker, lawmakers, and staff returned ahead of an anticipated new date for the event.”   He noted that aside from the speaker, other lawmakers on the entourage were Jimi Mohammed, Nurudeen Solaja and Tunde Braimoh, while Folashade Latona and Nike Ajibosin were the protocol officers, adding that “all those who attended the event still have evidence of their flight tickets and hotel reservations.”   “With the facts now laid bare again, one would wonder why the purveyors of these falsehoods remain bent on further soiling its drowning image in the eyes of reasonable Nigerians.”   Aside from setting the records straight, Obasa was apparently determined to protect his hard-earned reputation built over the years. Thus, the Speaker, through his lawyer Mr. Lawal Pedro (SAN), demanded a retraction from SaharaReporters.   In a demand letter to SaharaReporters publisher Omoyele Sowore, Pedro said the unsubstantiated claims repeated in the reports confirmed Obasa’s suspicion “that you and your organisation for reasons best known to you are preoccupied with personal resentment and hatred neither warranted necessary, proper nor justified against him”.   Pedro in the letter dated April 30, added: “We were able to confirm that the House of Assembly has never at any time engaged or awarded any contract to any of the listed companies in the publication. Therefore, we find the publication utterly absurd, abusive, malicious and amount to irresponsible journalism to deliberately tarnish the image of the Speaker (our client).   “Our client has been greatly injured in his credit, character and reputation and his office and has been brought to unwarranted hatred, ridicule, public scandal, odium and contempt before his friends, associates, Constituents, the State, the country and the world as a whole.   “No responsible media organisation will hide under media freedom or freedom of expression to deliberately peddle false and malicious statement to injure any citizen’s reputation and credit. “In the circumstance, it is our client’s instruction and we hereby demand of you, within seven days of receipt of this letter a retraction of the said false, malicious and defamatory publication against our client through your online publication, social media platforms and three national newspapers circulating in Nigeria. You are also to tender a written unreserved apology to our client for the publication.   “Take notice that, if you fail, refuse or neglect to meet our client’s humble request within the stipulated number of days, we have his further instruction to commence legal action against you and your organisation for the malicious defamatory publication and to claim N1 billion damages.”   According to the former lawmaker, the anticipated senatorial bid of the speaker in 2023 for Lagos West is one of the reasons why he is having it rough with some of those also eyeing the seat currently occupied by Senator Adeola Solomon.   “It is clumsy in politics if people of different interests coalesce to fight against you because of their interest and it is even worse you can’t even pin down who and who are genuinely for and against you. I think that is the plight of the speaker at present. He can only trust his own shadows because almost everyone around is just trying to secure their political future from his possible decimation. I think he came out too early because a former senator is also out to take the seat in 2023 as well.   “He might not be removed as the speaker but he may have his political movement halted because that is the target and they started the onslaught quite early. Don’t also forget that the former governor Ambode’s camp are still waiting to take their pound of flesh on the speaker over his alleged role in the failed second term bid of the ex-governor in 2019,” he said   Certainly, with the speaker himself alluding to the fact that there are orchestrated plans to dent his soaring political profile ahead of 2023, it’s a no-brainer that the attacks are primarily interest-based. It is only left to be seen whether Obasa will win both the war and the battle or otherwise.   