Maduike Ezeibe, a professor of Veterinary Medicine in the Department of Veterinary Medicine, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, Abia State, graduated from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. Ezeibe told ISIOMA MADIKE in this interview that he is only waiting to be asked to submit his drug-candidate for confirmation of its efficacy on COVID-19. Excerpts…    Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) recently announced that three COVID-19 remedy samples are undergoing evaluation. Is your drug one of them? I have not been contacted that I am one of the three persons whose medicines for COVID-19 are being investigated but I am hoping to be contacted to join. Before now, NAFDAC had also said that it received just one sample of drug from a claimant. Did you submit your drug to NAFDAC for assessment at any point? If not, why? I did not submit my claim to NAFDAC but I know my Vice Chancellor wrote them and many other authorities including the PTF that the university has a drug that can cure COVID-19. But for why did I not go to NAFDAC personally: Can you imagine what it will be for one to be milling around without proper invitation? I think government should appeal to scientists to make written claims of what active ingredients of their drugs are, mechanisms by which they cure and evidence of their safety and efficacy so that other scientists can review the claims. It is after the review that those selected can be asked to submit the drug-candidates for confirmation of the safety and efficacy. In other words, I am saying that inventions are achieved in the library, not in the laboratory or in the clinic. Any serious investigation of inventions should also start from the library. All that are needed in the laboratory and clinic is confirmation. Before that call that people could submit their claims to NAFDAC, I wrote a book on my medicine and clearly stated that it cures HIV/AIDS and could cure COVID-19. That book norand my explanation gave me first position in this year’s Innovations Science and Technology Expo. I gave copies of the book to Ministers and the SGF. Since the experts who examined claims at the Expo said mine was the best and that best is a claim that we have cure for HIV/AIDS, which can cure COVID-19, I am waiting to be asked to submit the drug-candidate for confirmation of its efficacy on COVID-19.  Chloroquine was tutored to be the magic drug for COVID-19. But WHO has now banned clinical trials of the drug for antiviral efficacy because of its intolerable side effects. What is your reaction to this? Chloroquine has been reported to have antiviral effect even before now. But every medicine has both the good (desired) effect and side effects. Chloroquine has serious side effects. So, to use it for more than seven days, which treatment for viral diseases may require, would make its side effects outweigh the good effects. We observed this long ago when using it at recommended dose (7mg/kg) led to 80 per cent death among mice being used for research. So, we started working on it and discovered that if it is formulated with the Medicinal Synthetic Aluminum-magnesium silicate the dose that works reduces from seven to 5.25 mg/kg, which is safe. At the begging of the clamour to use it for COVID-19, we quickly published an article in an American journal to report that it will be stabilized with the Nigerian medicine so that it’s dose to be used for COVID-19 would be 5.25mg/ kg instead of 7mg/kg. It appears they did not listen to our warning hence the toxicity they ran into.  You once claimed that President Buhari granted patent for your drug, the Medicinal Synthetic Aluminum- Magnesium Silicate, as a broad spectrum antiviral medicine in 2017, and that NIMR also confirmed it as safe. Why is the PTF not using it for clinical trials for COVID-19? That President Buhari granted me patent for Antirt (Medicinal synthetic Aluminum-magnesium silicate) as “broad spectrum antiviral medicine and antiretroviral medicine” is not a claim but a fact. The registration number is NG/2017/2428. Please verify this with the authorities. By that patent the medicine has been approved for use in treating viral diseases in Nigeria. Since COVID-19 is novel (new) but is still a viral disease, all that should be done is to test it on the virus in the lab and then move to clinical trial   What would you suggest for an enhanced testing capacity for COVID-19? I suggest we develop our own test for COVID-19 so that we can carry out massive testing and isolation/treatment. The modified passive hemagglutination is testing for antigen- antibody complexes, which prevent red blood cells from sedimenting. So, it is very specific and sensitive. We should develop it and use it since all the reagents can be sourced locally.  Why do you think the authorities are reluctant to approve your drugs, especially for HIV/AIDS? I guess you are asking why we do not believe in our scientists. I think we are losing confidence in our ability. We have also encouraged people to make false claims. Asking anyone who has cure to come to NAFDAC is one way to encourage false claims. After that kind of noise making when it is found not to be true it becomes difficult to believe people making sense. We should start asking people who claim to have cures, active ingredients of their medicines and how they work. Even herbs have things they contain that give them the efficacy. When people know they would be asked such questions those joking will keep quiet.  In a recent viral video, Italy has linked the cure for Coronavirus to blood clots. How would you react to this? I do not know what caused the clots seen by Italians. It could be a secondary infection, which means, it may not be the same everywhere. COVID-19 is a respiratory disease, not blood clotting defect. One thing is that since the news came from Europe, our people will sing it without questions. Viral diseases go with secondary infections, which vary from place to place, and from season (time) to season. Use of anticoagulants may give symptomatic relief in only the patients that have the clotting problem and fail in others. 