As the novel Coronavirus continues to spread across the states and citizens are forced to remain indoors, many Nigerians have joined the bandwagon, distributing relief materials. DEBORAH OCHENI reports  F ew weeks ago, the fight to end COVID-19 in Nigeria received a major boost from the First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari.  Her office distributed some items to support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in some states in the country.  The First Lady facilitated the distribution of the relief items through the ‘Get Involved Initiative’ bankrolled by the  Aisha Buhari Foundation (ABF), an organisation dedicated to humanitarian services for the less privileged in the society.   The materials distributed included cartons of assorted hand sanitizers, pharmaceutical drugs, Personal Protective Equipment including disposable gowns, coveralls, N95 surgical masks, gloves, protective goggles, regular and ICU beds with beddings, and automatic dispensers.  They were handed over to the  COVID-19 Response Committees of  the Federal Capital Territory, Bauchi and Gombe states.   Senior Special Assistant to the President on Administration and Women Affairs, Dr. Hajo Sani, who represented the First Lady at the event, said the gesture was meant to show deep concern for the citizens impacted by the spread of the dreaded coronavirus disease across Nigeria.   Buhari disclosed that as the pandemic grew in proportion, she  had  activated her Get Involved Initiative in order to raise  donations to support the fight against the disease.   She expressed appreciation to those who donated to the humanitarian cause, saying the nation will always remember   their contributions. She called on the benefitting states to put the items to good use and urged Nigerians to stay safe and practice social distancing in order to defeat the disease.   National Coordinator, Aisha Buhari Foundation and Future Assured Programme, Dr. Kamal Abdurrahman Mohammed, said the items will be useful to the people in the targeted states.   Director of Special Duties, FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat, and member, FCT Ministerial Advisory Committee on COVID-19, Dr. Mathew Ashikeni, who represented the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory at the event, expressed appreciation for the donations. Ashikeni said that the items would go a long way in supporting the fight against COVID-19 in the Federal Capital Territory.   He promised that the items would be put to judicious use and called on well-to-do Nigerians to support the effort of government in controlling the spread of the disease.   The Get Involved Initiative was one of the many platforms initiated by the First Lady to generate donations from individuals and corporate organizations to address pervasive health problems and was last activated to address the issue of nutrition among  the Internally Displaced Persons ( IDPs) in Nigeria.   Food palliatives In the meantime, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq has handed over some food palliatives to the Federal Capital Territory Administration to cushion the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on the residents of Abuja.   The food items, which were presented to the FCTA officials  at the National Youth Service Corps  Orientation Camp  in Kubwa, Abuja,  included 10 trucks of rice, two  trucks of vegetable oil and grains. According to the minister, the foodstuffs are to be distributed to the poor and vulnerable as well as  people living with disabilities in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, in order to achieve the goals of  the stay at home order. She said that the Federal Government decided to expand the Safety Net Programmes to include more vulnerable people whose conditions were at risk as a result of the COVID -19 pandemic.   Minister of the FCT, Alhaji Mohammed  Bello, while receiving the  palliatives, thanked the Federal Government  for the gesture and promised to distribute the food items to the targeted beneficiaries.  Also present at the handover ceremony were the Honourable Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory, Dr. Ramatu Tijani Aliyu and the Permanent Secretary of FCT, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa.   Similarly, the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs Disaster Management and Social Development has handed over three trucks of rice and one truck of vegetable oil to the Kogi State Government, to cushion the effects of the lockdown  on the people as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.   Head, Special Duties of the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Nadia Muhammed-Soso, handed over the relief items to the Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Chief Edward Onoja, at the Kogi State Government House.   The Minister enjoined the state to ensure that the relief items got to the targeted beneficiaries, to cushion the effect of the lockdown.   In his remarks, Onoja appreciated the kind gesture of the Federal Government and  promised to ensure the foodstuffs got to the right persons. EU’s support   Meanwhile, the United Nations (UN) has  announced the receipt of  EUR 1.2 million from the European Union for the provision of lifesaving,  preparedness and response activities for COVID-19 in Nigeria. The donation followed the increasing cases of COVID-19 infections in Nigeria and the growing  concerns around the need to drastically scale-up public health preparedness and response. Head of the EU’s Humanitarian Aid Office in Nigeria, Thomas Conan, said the fund was being provided to assist Nigeria’s response to the pandemic.   “In these trying times, the European Union is maintaining its humanitarian support to the most vulnerable people in Nigeria, where we have funded close to £271.5 million (N116 billion) in emergency food aid, shelter, access to clean water, hygiene and sanitation, and basic primary healthcare since 2014,” said  Conan.   UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins, said that the humanitarian funding received will further the UN’s COVID-19 response in Nigeria, by engaging with communities on how to best protect themselves from the virus and providing essential health supplies where they are needed most.   “With these critical funds from the EU,  the UN as a whole in Nigeria is in a better position to do the important work of engaging with communities on how they can prevent the spread of this virus, and also complement government’s efforts to ensure that healthcare workers can continue the critical work they are already doing to test and treat cases in the country,” said Hawkins.   He said that with the EU  funding, UNICEF will be contributing to the efforts underway in the country to contain the spread of the virus and mitigate its effects. It will also help with the emergency response to identified cases, as well as prevention and preparedness measures for possible future outbreaks in crowded cities and camps for internally displaced people in the north-east region of Nigeria.   The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)  and global health leaders around the world,  have  advised that physical distancing, washing of hands on a regular basis and staying at home will help significantly to halt the progress of the virus.   