The monumental alteration of business plans by outbreak of Coronavirus is yet to fully stabilise even as countries are reluctantly easing their lockdowns to allow businesses resume. In midst of the tumour, the insurance industry regulator is also taking steps to ensure the best for operators. Sunday Ojeme reports  I n face of the disaster visited on individuals, families and businesses by the pandemic, there is no doubt that certain modifications will emerge as far as business projections in the first quarter of the year are concerned. To ensure moderate stability, investors, in the last one month, have been taking various steps to ensure a quick come back that will be deprived of any possible miscalculations.   Having set goals for the insurance industry, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has also been aligning with the global process to ensure businesses return to the norm without encountering too much burden.   Succour This position has been reflected severally through forbearance, palliatives and interventions even before the outbreak of the Coronavirus.   To further amplify the encouragement, the Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, has gone ahead with a pronouncement that the guidelines for the 2020 recapitalisation exercise would undergo some modifications following disruptions by COVID-19. According to him, the commission will release a new recapitalisation guideline for the insurance and reinsurance companies after the COVID-19 pandemic.  Thomas, who said this at an online meeting of insurance stakeholders tagged: `Post COVID- 19: Impact on the Insurance Industry,’ added that the pillars that formed the initial recapitalisation objectives, such as consolidation, foreign direct investments and local investors had been hindered by the pandemic.  He maintained that the commission was restrategising, factoring this into the scene and creating different models to see which will be more result-oriented.  Even before the situation became this devastating, some industry watchers had spoken out on the need for the recapitalisation process to be altered.  Prior to the commissioner’s position, which was largely expected, operators in the industry had quietly mooted the same idea as so many arrangements towards the exercise scheduled to end by December 31, 2020 have been terribly punctured.  Operators’ views Specifically, an operator enjoined the regulator to extend the deadline from December 31, 2020 to 2021 in view of the market disruptions and uncertainties created by the Coronavirus crisis in Nigeria and around the world. He was quoted by a publication as saying that the prevailing situation had made all the recapitalisation strategies and game-plans by operators unrealistic and largely overtaken by events of the moment.   According to him, “it is important for the market to appeal to NAICOM to extend the recapitalisation deadline from December 31, 2020 to 2021 because of this coronavirus issue. If the COVID-19 problem does not go away by the third quarter of 2020, it would be rather difficult for many operators to meet the December 31, 2020 recapitalisation deadline set by NAICOM.   “The reality is that the current situation is adversely affecting all our strategies and plans to recapitalise on or before the deadline. I believe that if the market decides to approach the regulator on this issue as a body, something positive could be done.”   Speaking on the situation too, the Managing Director of African Alliance, Mrs. Funmi Omo, rightly projected that except the pandemic is not fully contained on time, only then there would be possible modulations in the exercise.  According to her, “plans for the exercise have gone very far before the pandemic of Covid-19 erupted and so, it is not expected to impact on recapitalisation except the pandemic is not arrested within a short time frame. That to me is doubtful. The virus as like every other virus that has a lifespan. The only thing is that within the timeframe, its impact will be far-reaching on economic growth.”   According to Thomas, “the game has changed. Immediately we are pitched out of this pandemic, of course, we are going to release a new guideline with respect to recapitalisation exercise.   “The commission will be coming up with a structured way to ensure that the industry will have the necessary data to drive the business. We will look into our service delivery and awareness creation.” Targeted capital/palliatives   The regulatory agency had given directive that insurance operators recapitalise their businesses from N2 billion to N8 billion for life, N3 billion to N10 billion for general business and N5 billion to N18 billion for composite segment.   In the same vein, reinsurers are expected to raise their funds from N10 billion to N20 billion. To ensure a smooth process for the exercise, which deadline was moved from June 30, 2020 to December 2020, the management of the commission had continuously intervened in the process by having series of parleys with other regulators.  Specifically, the commission had in the past written to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to grant some concession to the operators for as long as the recapitalisation exercise would last. Indeed, while the operators were still savouring information on the regulator’s intervention, a more propitious offer was made when they were given extra six months as deadline.   In a circular, the commission said it had reviewed the recapitalisation plans submitted by operators and various levels of compliance observed.  It said: “Similarly, it has noted the inputs from the various engagements with relevant stakeholders. “The commission, therefore, extends the recapitalisation deadline to December 31, 2020.   On palliatives, the commission pointed out that as part of the measures to ease the recapitalisation exercise, some of the relevant agencies had set up help desks to fast track processing of application for ‘No Objection’ and for approvals.  “Engagements with these agencies on other palliatives are ongoing,” the circular noted.   Shareholders’ position While reacting to the gesture then, Mr Boniface Okezie, National Coordinator, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria, commended the commissioner for ensuring the extension.   “There was no way the commission could stampede the insurance firms with the recapitalisation, considering the warbling and unstable economy and the not clear policy by government.   “If the acting commissioner continues with this trend, then it will be better for the market; as there is no need to be too rigid because you are regulating, but rather consider the plight of the stakeholders,” he said.  Okezie urged NAICOM to improve on its policy for the sector, for the insurance companies to take their rightful position in the capital market, which would in turn make the recapitalisation seamless. According to him, the effort, if made by NAICOM, will build the confidence of the public in the insurance sector.   “As a matter of concern, there is no will and confidence on the insurance sector.   “As at today, how many people patronise them? The share is lavishly below the power value. “With the present reality, if there is going to be re-capitalisation, at how much price would they offer their Right issue or Public offer to the public or existing investors who will buy? “When you have not been reaping or getting appreciable dividends from the one you invested as an investor, how will you invest more? ” he asked.  Okezie, however, urged the insurance and reinsurance companies not to relax in their efforts and plans to meet up with the exercise despite the deadline extension. Last line   Following current developments globally and steps being taken by regulators to ensure stability in their sectors, there is no doubt that the nation’s insurance sector is heading towards the right direction following steps taken by the regulator to ensure it does not stampede the operators into the recapitalisation exercise based, however, on the expected guideline modification.   