Though the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that there is no going back the dates scheduled for the Edo and Ondo governorship elections despite the coronavirus pandemic, the conduct of primaries by the political parties to elect their candidates might present a challenge, writes ONYEKACHI EZE       Any doubt on the possibility of holding the Edo and Ondo states governorship elections on the scheduled dates was settled last week Wednesday, when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) released guidelines for the resumption of activities at its… he Rivers State Caucus in the National Assembly has kicked against the directive of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, establishing a parallel Task Force under the State Police Command to regulate movement of people and goods in Rivers State. Governor Nyesom Wike had, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, established a Task Force to man the state borders to enforce the restriction of human and vehicular movements to guard against further spread of COVID-19 in the state. The Task Force, which came into force following the signing… Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George, takes a look on government’s handling of the Coronavirus pandemic, warning against the consequences of politicising the issue     All over the world, from Australia to the farthest reaches of Iceland, from the blue fields of Nicaragua in South America to the steppes of Asia – every inch of mother earth is infected with the scourge of the Covid-19 pandemic. There is no escape. There is no immune corner of the globe. There is palpable panic… CHUKWU DAVID reports that the decision of the Senate to probe alleged financial recklessness amounting to N40 billion by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has generated serious controversy and suspicion between the Chamber and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio   The Senate on May 3, 2020 set up an ad hoc committee to investigate alleged financial recklessness by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Senator Olubunmi Adetunbi, representing Ekiti North on the platform… The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, will soon present the resolution of the National Council on Privatization (NCP) on power and healthcare reforms to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Executive Council (FEC). According to a statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, Osinbajo presided over the NCP where power sector issues and comprehensive healthcare reforms were tabled. He stated: “Significantly, NCP today (yesterday) approved the preparation and presentation to Mr. President and FEC, a draft legislative instrument to enact the Health Sector Reform Bill and… The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID- 19 has said that it arrived at the decision to extend the first phase of the ease of lockdown because of current experiences from other countries, experts’ advice and history of global pandemics. Briefing newsmen at the team’s daily media conference, the PTF Chairman and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, cautioned the people against partisan distraction. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who also updated newsmen on the activities of his ministry, warned the people against self-medication… The coronavirus (COVID- 19) cases in Enugu state has risen to 15 from 12. But with treatment and discharge of six patients, Enugu will now have nine active cases. The state Ministry of Health in a statement signed by Commissioner for Health, Obi Emmanuel Ikechukwu and made available to journalists in Enugu yesterday announced that the state had received three new results of patients, who had tested positive for the virus. The Commissioner disclosed that two more cases of the previously active COVID-19 cases, who had undergone treatment in the… Although Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State was yet to reveal identity of the Ibadan company in which 57 members of staff had tested positive for coronavirus, the company’s identity was yesterday unveiled as ‘iSON Xperiences’. Also, the company’s management has confirmed the incident, saying that its members of staff with suspected risks had since undergone necessary test and already placed in isolation under the supervision of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The company located at Dugbe in the Ibadan South West Local Government was reported at the… United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Enugu Field office in collaboration with National Orientation Agency (NOA), yesterday stepped down training of residents of Ebonyi State on measures to avoid further spread of coronavirus in the state. They also engaged the people on issues bordering on violence against women, children and birth registration. Child Protection Specialist, UNICEF, Mr. Victor Atuchukwu, explained that the exercise followed a one-day orientation and capacity building meeting for the NOA, Community Orientation and Mobilization Officers in the state.They met with traditional rulers in each of the communities… The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said there is no going back in the conduct of Edo and Ondo State governorship elections in September and October this year. Tothis end, thecommission will tomorrow, release policy framework for its engagement withstakeholdersforoutstanding senatorial bye elections. This was part of the decision reached at INEC’s management meeting held in Abuja yesterday. National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, in a statement at the end of the meeting, also disclosed that the commission deliberated extensively on policy framework that would…