Disagreement over the propriety or otherwise of the Infectious Diseases Bill has continued unabated. PHILIP NYAM looks at the exchange of words between members of the House of Representatives and the Nigeria Governors Forum   N o bill has generated so much controversy in recent times such as what has come to be known by many Nigerians as the NCDC Bill. It is titled: “a bill for act to repeal the Quarantine act and enact the Control of infectious diseases act, make provisions relating to Quarantine and make regulations for preventing the introduction into and spread in Nigeria of dangerous infectious diseases, and for related matters”. This bill is co-sponsored by Speaker Femi Gabajabiamia (APC, Lagos), Hon. Tanko Sununu (APC, Kebbi), who is also Chairman of the House Committee on Health Services and Hon. Pascal Obi (APM, Imo), who is Chairman of the House Committee on Health Institutions.   The bill seeks to repeal the Quarantine act, laws of the Federation, 2004 (originally enacted in 1926) and enact the control of Infectious Diseases Act, make provisions relating to Quarantine and make regulations for preventing the introduction into and spread in Nigeria of dangerous infectious diseases and for related matters.    Both those who have read the bill and those who have not cited a line from the proposed laws have been making their inputs. In fact, the controversy began on the floor of the House of Representatives when some members raised alarm on the day it was presented that they have no access to it, and consequently queried the haste with which it was presented and pursued. Since then, different conspiracy theories have been woven around the bill.    Following the opposition from the House, the CSOs, NGOs, opposition parties, the NMA and other professional bodies and indeed Nigerians from different walks of life have been baring their minds over the proposed legislation. This piece of proposed legislation has unfortunately pitched the House against the Nigerian public, rightly or wrongly.    The latest is the war of attrition ignited by the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), which few days ago advised the House of Representatives to suspend the bill and seek for more consultations with stakeholders. However, the House felt the position of the governors was not taking in good faith, most especially that the body relied heavily on the briefing from a former Speaker of the House and now governor of Sokoto state, Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal.   Coincidentally, Tambuwal is a known political opponent of the current Speaker, Hon. Femi Gabajabiamila, who is indeed a co-sponsor of the bill. This has heighten suspicion within the House leadership of a possible sabotage by Tambuwal, who in 2015 allegedly gave tacit support to Hon. Yakubu Dogara that caused Gbajabiamila the exalted seat of Speaker. It is also rumoured that Tambuwal, once more in 2019 threw his weight behind those opposed to the emergence of Gbajabiamila as Speaker again. Although, the Tambuwal group could not stop Gbajabiamila in 2019, there exist a mutual distrust between the two, hence this has metamorphosed into the current disagreement between the NGF and the House over the Infectious Diseases Bill.   Apart from the bill, what is playing out now seems to be a renewed hostility between these two political enemies.   The NGF’s position   The NGF at a meeting held recently came out with a communique advising the House to drop the bill and seek more consultations.  The NGF in the communique alluded to the fact that its decision on the bill was borne out of an advice it received from the Sokoto state governor.   The NGF said: “Following an update from the Governor of Sokoto State and Vice-Chairman of the NGF, H.E Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, on the proposed Control of Infectious Diseases Bill, 2020 introduced by the House of Representatives, governors raised concern with the lack of consultation with state governments who are at the forefront of the epidemic.   “The Forum resolved that the bill should be stepped down until an appropriate consultative process is held, including a public hearing to gather public opinion and concerns.   “In the light of this, the Forum established a committee comprising the governors of Katsina, Sokoto and Plateau states to lead a consultative meeting with the leadership of the National Assembly on the proposed Control of Infectious Diseases Bill, 2020. The NGF Secretariat was also mandated to comprehensively review the Bill and its implication on states,” the governors stated in a communique issued at the end of their 8th COVID-19 Teleconference meeting on Wednesday night”.   Reps’ response   Miffed by the disposition of the NGF, the House through her spokesperson, Hon. Benjamin Kalu responded thus: “It has come to the attention of the House of Representatives that the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has, through a communiqué at the end of its virtual meeting held on Wednesday, May 13, 2020, asked the House to step down the Control of Infectious Diseases Bill, 2020, which public hearing is already scheduled.   “In the communiqué, the NGF noted that “Following an update from the Governor of Sokoto State and Vice Chairman of the NGF, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, on the proposed Control of Infectious Diseases Bill, 2020 introduced by the House of Representatives, Governors raised concern with the lack of consultation with state governments who are at the forefront of the epidemic.”   The NGF said it “resolved that the Bill should be stepped down until an appropriate consultative process is held, including a public hearing to gather public opinion and concerns.”   “Against the impression given in the NGF’s communiqué, the House has since last week resolved to subject the Control of Infectious Diseases Bill to a public hearing where Nigerians from all walks of life will have the opportunity to make their inputs towards the draft legislation. The NGF’s position is coming rather belatedly.   “However, the House wishes to state clearly that whilst it legislates for the Federal Republic of Nigeria, including being the Parliament for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja only; the Nigeria Governors Forum is recognized by members of the House as leading lights in the task of Nation Building.   “It is rather surprising that the NGF, in arriving at its decision, relied on “an update from the Governor of Sokoto State,” who, apart from being a lawyer, is a former Speaker and an ex-ranking member of the House, who should know better and guide the Forum accordingly. We assume that his position was informed by his well-known personal and partisan opposition to the emergence of the current leadership of the house considering his obvious stance in 2015 and 2019.   “Unlike in a constitution amendment matter, where state houses of assembly have a defined constitutional role to play in effecting any review to it, Bills such as the Control of Infectious Diseases are not by our constitution subject of concurrence of state houses of assembly or state governors. We do believe that our respected Governors are aware of this lawful processes of legislation and should not be misguided by a biased position of a former speaker. “Let it be known that the House of Representatives, and indeed the National Assembly, are independent of the control of any state governor or former Speaker, except if we want to change that now. Even at that, it has to be by a constitutional amendment sponsored the citizens an not by the personal view of one Governor and former speaker.   “Notwithstanding, the House expresses its readiness to work with the Committee raised by the NGF to meet members of the Green Chamber on the Bill. The Governors are our critical stakeholders in nation building, and we understand the importance of working with our Governors at critical moments such as this pandemic period.   “The House also wishes to state that the NGF is free to make its position on the Bill known through a memorandum during the planned public hearing or send its representative or representatives to appear in person. Till date no single Governor has called the Speaker or anyone in leadership to express his views. It is our belief that there are better channels of communication available to the NGF to address the leadership of the house instead of the pages of newspapers.  “It is instructive to note that the 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended) in Section 60 gives the House the powers to regulate its legislative activities, and the House would not shy away from that. Members of the 9th Assembly are united irrespective of party affiliation and will continue to do those things that will promote good governance, unity and progress of our country”.   The weeks ahead will tell whether the House would still continue with the process of the bill or suspend deliberations on it as advised the NGF. Many analysts are of the view that the bill has received bad press and the intendment of the sponsors may have been misrepresented. This calls for change of tactics by the House in order to win the confidence of the public regarding the proposed legislation.     