 F amily and friends are apprehensive over the whereabouts of former Edo State Commissioner for Sports and Youths Development, Presley Idiagbonya.  The former commissioner was kidnapped from his farm house at Okada in Ovia North East Local Government Area about 2a.m. on Saturday. This was as the whereabouts of a medical doctor, Monday Iraoya, who was kidnapped between Uhunmora and Ozalla in Owan West Local Government Area last Friday were still unknown yesterday night.   It was learnt that Iraoya’s abductors have reduced the ramson they demanded  to N25 million from initial N100 million. As at yesterday, family members of Idiagbonya and some security agencies were combing the bushes of Okada after they reportedly received a text message that the body of their breadwinner was in a cassava farm in the area.   The kidnappers were said to have agreed on a ransom of N2 million which the family was directed to go and drop at Patani, a neibhouring town between Delta and Bayelsa states whereas Okada, where he was kidnapped, is a boundary area between Edo and Ondo states. A family source said a text message informed the relations that Idiagbonya had died.  “The kidnappers said we should deliver N2 million at Patani in Delta State. After we returned, we got a text message that the body of our father was dumped in a cassava farm and we have been searching for the body to no avail. As I am talking to you (6:09 p.m.) another batch has departed to the forest to continue the search,” the source said. But the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Chdid Nwabuzor, said the police had deployed their men in search of the kidnapped victims.  He said: “I will describe the issue of death as fake news for now. We have been told of the two kidnapped incidents and we are investigating them already.” In a related development, the Benin Branch of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has called for an emergency meeting today over the disappearance of its member, Omon Osobase. Osobase was said to have been missing since May 9 after an altercation with some persons at an open bar. The Public Relations Officer of the Benin branch of NBA, Douglas Ogbankwa, said they became worried because of alleged complacency of the police when the incident was reported to them.  