Book Title: Go Forward – Life is an incentive to fulfill your destiny  Author: Lawrence Oluwadare  Publisher: KP Books, Lagos, Nigeria  Pages: 223  Reviewer: Blessed Mudiaga Adjekpagbon   ‘G o Forward – Life is an incentive to fulfill your destiny,’ is a well researched spiritual motivational literature written by a prolific messenger of God, simply known as Pastor Lawrence Oluwadare, of Praise Chapel International, Lagos, Nigeria. The very engaging book is made up of 15 chapters with different topical ways of moving forward as a Christian and what going forward entails. In the intro, the author says: “The bliss and paradise of life lies in the discovery of God’s purpose and devotion to accomplish same. The hell of life lies in your ignorance of God’s ordained purpose and commitment to its achievement.”   It is in the light of the above quote that the book unfolds from the first chapter to the end with catchy topics such as: The irony of life is, you may not look like it or have believe for it; Living but not searching for your true life; Life on earth is an incentive to accomplish and fulfill your destiny; The life you have in Christ is an incentive to fly higher and faster to your ordained place; Lay hold on heavenly vision as an incentive for exemplary privilege and performance on earthly platform; Not a clog but a plug for your advancement; The name of the Lord is your incentive for safety and excellent performance; and Winning grace is your incentive to win the race, etc.   To be a successful person in life, Oluwadare uses both his personal spiritual and physical experiences and that of others to give example here and there in the book. He says, “One day, I went out, and on my way back home, I saw a second hand book titled ‘Speaking of Tongues,’ with a book vendor… I bought the book with my ‘last card,’ preferring to trek the distance of over five miles home on a very sunny afternoon.” He explains how the Holy Spirit led him to higher spiritual heights as he studied the book afterwards and broadened his understanding of the Scriptures.  Hence, he shares his ability and the steps he takes in going forward in “Go Forward – Life is an incentive to fulfill your destiny.” This underscores the importance of reading good scriptural books to upgrade ones knowledge about how to move forward both in the spiritual and physical spheres of life.  In this vein, the pastor, Oluwadare gives practical steps of how one could go forward in life with spiritual enlightenment as spiritual forces controls the physical spheres. He offers that “Life on earth is fragile, but it is fortified enough with knowledge for optimum fruitfulness, flourishing and fulfillment. Therefore, if we know all that we ought to know, we can do all that we ought to do at the right time and for the right reasons.”   From the point of view of the aforesaid, many folks don’t know how to move forward because they don’t know the spiritual steps they need to take. Therefore, the author prescribes some vital things to be done on certain human activities and how they could help to propel various individuals to their major goals in life. He throws light on subthemes such as spiritual ability; physical ability; material ability; wisdom and intelligence ability; and skill abilities.  He also quotes a lot of scriptural verses to buttress his achievements and that of other notable folks who follow the step by step methods of becoming successful in life by faith and adherence to the teachings of the Lord, Jesus Christ.   One common trait that makes the book reader-friendly is the author’s use of very simple diction for the basic understanding of any less informed reader. It is only through reading the book that a true Christian can fully benefit from all the spiritual and physical methods of going forward in life that Oluwadare prescribes with crystal clarity. Even non Christian could find the book useful to discover steps they can take to build up their spiritual enlightenment and knowledge.   Nonetheless, there are some shortcomings in the book such as, a few typos that need to be corrected before reprint. The typos do not in any way reduce the quality of the messages therein. The book has no mechanical or channel noise, and its contents is very neat. This makes it very enjoyable to read too.   Lawrence Oluwadare studied Statistics at the Yaba College of Technology, Lagos; and also holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Lagos, Nigeria. His passion is to save souls into the kingdom of God, and for everyone to maximize his greatness. Apart from being the founder of Praise Chapel International, he has the spiritual gifts of prophesy and authoritative positive power of prayer that make things come to manifestation by God’s grace.   His other noteworthy books include “When Sin Wears Innocent Face,” “The Believer You Should Not Marry,” and “Anchor For Fulfillment,” etc. He is married and blessed with children.   