 A s Bayelsa State COVID-19 Task force destroyed the GSM village in Tombia Etegwe Roundabout in Yenagoa, the state capital, Igbo traders in the state have lamented the demolition of their stalls and loss of goods worth billions of naira, threatening to leave the state. They called on the state government to open the borders closed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, so they could go back to their villages since their source of income and livelihood had been destroyed in a manner that was not only sinister, but wicked. The security component of the Bayelsa State COVID-19 task force had in the early hours of yesterday demolished what it described as illegal structures at the Tombia Market. While the traders said they were not given proper notice of the action as most of them were on lockdown at home, the government claimed that prior notices were sent to them via radio and flyers. Speaking in an emotion laddened voice, Chairman of the GSM Market Traders Union, William Eze, lamented the manner the government on a Sunday morning, decided to destroy a market that was providing over 2,000 jobs at a time when families can hardly feed as result of the pandemic. He said: “The truth of the matter is that as a chairman, I didn’t get any official notice. Yesterday, being Saturday, you knww we are having lockdown, so as chairman, I was supposed to be in my house, to respect the order of Bayelsa State Government. “As chairman of the market, I was supposed to be the first to get the notice, but I didn’t get any until yesterday when my chief security officer hinted me about it and I called some official, but they denied only for me to hear this morning that the markets and shops had been destroyed.” “Here is the only GSM phone village in Bayelsa, the governor would have looked for another place and build for us to rent. Since 2013, we have been writing to Bayelsa State government that we need a permanent site because this place cannot contain us. “We are more than 4,000 here so this place cannot contain us. So government should have first build another place, relocate us to that place and let us do our normal business. “Now you have demolished the market, What do you want people to do? Remember that the borders are closed because of COVID-19. They have destroyed our shop, our source of livelihood, our income, there is no reason to remain in Bayelsa State, let them open the borders and let us go home to our villages before we  die of hunger here. “They have not served me any notice and I want to appeal to Bayelsa State government, let them open up the road because this time around we need to go because you are locking us down, you are destroying our property. So we don’t have any source of income than to go to our villages.” Also speaking, a shop owner, Samuel Awode, who said he lost millions of naira to the demolition, lamented that the manner of the demolition was sinister and wicked. However, South-South Coordinator of the youth wing of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Chinedu Arthur-Ugwa, called for calm, calling on the government to quickly address the plight of thetraders to alleviate their sufferings. Reacting to the demolition, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Orientation and member, Bayelsa State Task force On COVID-19, Freston Akpor, said prior notice was given to the traders to vacate the market. He said though no written notice was given to the head of the traders association, because they were not recognised, but that flyers were sent to the market prior to the demolition. He called for calm, saying that the reason for the demolition was for the good of all. 