Unity Forum, a factional group within the Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has for a while been engulfed in crises over the choice of the aspirant that will battle the incumbent Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for the party’s ticket. ADEWALE MOMOH writes on the protracted issues surrounding the group as well as the imbroglio caused by the recent emergence of Chief Olusola Oke as the forum’s consensus candidate   T he seeming intractable crisis rocking the factional group of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Unity Forum in Ondo State appears to have become uncontrollable.   This followed the adoption of Chief Olusola Oke on May 12 as the group’s consensus candidate to contend with the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu who is seeking a second term in office.   Oke’s emergence as the group’s candidate to contest the APC’s governorship ticket with Governor Akeredolu at the party’s primaries slated for July 2020 was announced by the former Deputy Governor of the state, Alhaji Ali Olanusi who is the leader of the group.   Unity Forum is an umbrella body of aggrieved APC governorship aspirants and party stalwarts working against the re-election bid of Governor Akeredolu.   Olanusi made the announcement in Akure, the Ondo State capital on May 12,  following the submission of the report of a seven-man gubernatorial candidate selection committee set up by the group. The committee was headed by Senator Yele Omogunwa, while Prof. Sola Ehindero served as Secretary.   He said: “Considering the mood of the state and continuous ban on political meetings and the fact that INEC has given its nod for electronic campaign, we hereby present to the public the long-awaited report of the Ondo APC Unity Forum concerning its governorship aspirant for the 2020 governorship election in Ondo State, as presented by the Gubernatorial Candidate Selection Committee.   “The Unity Forum, by the content of the report has adopted Chief Olusola Oke, SAN as the candidate of the Forum. All the leaders and members of the Unity Forum are hereby enjoined to begin mobilisation across the state for the candidate of the forum.”   However, the development has caused ripples within the forum leading to more cracks in the already fractured group. On May 14 one of the aspirants within the forum, Olusegun Abraham had stated that the other nine aspirants had agreed that the governorship ticket of the party should be ceded to Ondo North Senatorial District of the state where he hailed from.   However, nine of the 10 governorship aspirants within the forum who had since distanced themselves from the claim of Abraham who lost the 2016 APC primaries to Akeredolu in the second position said that the meeting held online by the aspirants on April 28, 2020, said that the issue of zoning was not on the fore.   Reacting to the emergence of Oke’s candidature, the Secretary of the group’s screening committee, Professor Ehindero dissociated himself from the announcement made by the Unity Forum on Oke.   Prof. Ehindero said Olanusi had no authority to declare a candidate for the group adding that the report did not “emanate from the accredited secretary’s office nor did it reflect the true deliberations and conclusion of the members of the screening committee.   He said as the duly elected Secretary of the Screening Committee of the Unity Forum set up to select a consensus candidate for the APC in the next governorship elections, he can state that the report is fake report and from an unauthorised person.   “The fake report is inspired, sponsored, and programmed by known and disguised enemies of both the Unity Forum and the APC in the Ondo State and it is designed to tactically distract the attention and focus of our collective efforts”.   Another member of the committee, Prince Solagbade Amodeni also faulted the announcement of Oke as the forum’s candidate. According to him, the entire selection process was shrouded in secrecy stressing that he had earlier advised against picking a consensus candidate as past experiences had shown that such would not be accepted.   “I told them that the committee would not be able to achieve any success when the larger house of 45 men and women met and came up with the idea. I remember telling them that we have done similar thing before. I expressed my fear if the outcome will not get us more disunited than we were.   “I equally told them that the committee had no capacity to determine many things to arrive at a particular aspirant as the consensus candidate. I remember equally praying for Baba Olanusi, that may he not lose his integrity on the exercise.”   He said the entire exercise brought about many posers. “Who wrote the report? Was it shown to the remaining three members that did not append their signatures on it? Why was the report sent to party leaders outside the state four weeks ago without first making it public in Ondo State?   “In all these, why was the Secretary of the committee not accused of abdication if there was any time he failed in his responsibility? In conclusion, the whole exercise was shrouded in hidden agenda, which we have all seen. We shall reap whatever we sow. It’s a question of time,” he said.   In the same vein, Prof Ajayi Boroffice, who is the patron of the group, also moved against the announcement of Oke by Alhaji Olanusi as group’s choice   While urging the governorship aspirants within the group to start preparations for the “direct primaries of the APC in Ondo State”, Boroffice emphasised that the criteria for adopting a consensus candidate were not met by the group.  Boroffice said: “The fact is that Unity Forum has no consensus candidate. This fact is premised on two fundamental reasons. Firstly, the political tendencies in Unity Forum could not agree on critical processes that could have led to adoption of a consensus candidate.   “For instance, while some members opted for zoning, some members disagreed. Recently, aspirants participated in a zoning process and majority agreed that Ondo North Senatorial district should produce the consensus candidate.  “Secondly, when the idea of consensus candidacy was mooted, the understanding was that all seven members of the Gubernatorial Candidate Selection Committee must unanimously agree on a consensus candidate. That condition has not been met.   “Therefore, it is the consensus opinion of majority of leaders and members of Unity Forum in Ondo North Senatorial district and other parts of Ondo State that Unity Forum is yet to present a consensus candidate.”   Meanwhile, a group, Unity Mandate Agenda has accused Prof. Boroffice of working to undermine the process of picking the consensus candidate before now. The group accused Boroffice of playing politics of divide and rule to frustrate the Unity Forum in order to scheme what the group described as his hidden agenda towards the governorship election into the minds of the national leaders of the party.   Also, reacting to the issue, the Elders’ Forum of the Unity Group accused Olanusi of deliberately manipulating the selection of the members of the seven-man aspirants screening committee to propagate his personal agenda.    As at the last count, four of the 10 aspirants within the forum had officially responded to the announcement of Oke’s as the choice of the group. Among the aspirant is the Owo-born business tycoon, Prince Dapo Adelegan who kicked against the emergence of Oke’s candidature said that the group was yet to adopt a consensus candidate.   On his part, Jimmy Odimayo, who described the announcement of Oke as an unpatriotic move on the part of Alhaji Olanusi, said that the move was a high point of disappointment and embarrassment to the larger number of members of Unity Forum.   “This unpatriotic move by Alhaji Olanusi and few unscrupulous members of the screening committee chaired by Senator Yele Omogunwa, to say the least, is a high point of disappointment and embarrassment to the larger number of members of Unity Forum, and by extension, our campaign organisation and electorate in our darling Sunshine State.   “However, we salute the steadfastness, moral and integrity displayed by the Secretary of Screening Committee, Prof. Ehindero, and other distinguished members of the committee who insisted that such evil report is fake and never a product of genuine and authentic deliberation of the committee.”   Also, one of the aspirants, Olayide Adelami stated that “reactions from the Secretary of the Aspirants Screening Committee, Prof. Ehindero, the Deputy Senate Majority Leader, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice and the Unity Group Elders Forum to the purported adoption is a clear indication that Alhaji Olanusi acted in isolation and his action, therefore, cannot override the collective interest of all well-meaning members of the forum, whose sole aim is to enthrone good governance in Ondo State through a capable, competent and credible candidate who will fly the flag of the APC in the October 10th governorship election.”   Meanwhile, the Chairman of the seven-man screening committee, Senator Yele Omogunwa while responding to the allegations of the aspirants and other members of the group explained that the majority members of the committee picked Oke.   He added that the committee was not in any way induced for its conclusion on the choice of Oke but the committee received donations from some of the aspirants to enhance the assignment of the committee which was not funded by the forum.   “When we were holding meetings here (Olanusi’s house), there was no water, no biscuit, and we were working day and night. Segun Abraham came and gave us N100,000. It was in the open. Odimayo gave the committee N200,000. Another aspirant gave N500,000. Kazeem gave us N20,000 and Adelagan gave N50,000.   “The total amount shared by the seven committee members was 1.2m. It was out of the money we booked hotel for the Secretary for three days because he was coming from Ife.” Senator Omogunwa added that all the aspirants were competent but I agreed with the majority that picked Chief Oke. The Secretary left without signing. The only woman in our midst also did not sign.  “The aspirants told us to do it the way it pleased us and that they will support whoever emerges. We followed the mind of the public. Every politician should wait for his time.”   Senator Omogunwa added that the Secretary of the Committee, Prof. Ehindero wanted a technocrat governor while the only woman in the committee, Mrs. Olukemi Iyantan picked Mrs. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowose.  Aspirants within the Unity Forum included Dr. Segun Abraham, Barr. Olarewaju Kazeem, Barr. Bukola Adetula, Prince Dapo Adelegan, Adelami Olayide Owolabi, Akintunde Akinsewa Awodeyi. Other are Barr. Mrs. Jumoke Anifowose, Chief Olusola Oke, Engr Ife Oyedele, and Prince Jimmy Odimayo.   