he Rivers State Caucus in the National Assembly has kicked against the directive of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, establishing a parallel Task Force under the State Police Command to regulate movement of people and goods in Rivers State. Governor Nyesom Wike had, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, established a Task Force to man the state borders to enforce the restriction of human and vehicular movements to guard against further spread of COVID-19 in the state. The Task Force, which came into force following the signing of Executive Order RVSG-02 No. 3 -2020, has led to the arrest of several travellers as well as the impounding of their vehicles. However, the Commissioner of Police for Rivers State, Mr. John Mukam, acting under the instructions of the Inspector- General of Police, at the weekend, set up a parallel Task Force in the guise of a Technical Committee to ensure movement of agricultural products and other essential items into Rivers State. The committee is saddled with the task of determining who comes into Rivers State during this period of lockdown. In a swift reaction to the development, members of the Rivers Caucus in the National Assembly, comprising legislators of Rivers State origin in the two chambers of the parliament, have described the development as sour and highly confrontational not only to the authorities of the Rivers State Government, but to her citizens and residents. Leader of the Caucus, Senator George Sekibo, who addressed newsmen on the situation, said the setting up of another body to regulate movement of people and goods into Rivers State was antithetical to the goals of the current inter-state lockdown and other measures to curb the COVID-19 pandemic. Sekibo, in an address read on behalf of the caucus, said the move by the Police hierarchy would reverse the gains already made by the Rivers State Government in the enforcement of the lockdown and reduction in the rate of infection of the virus. “It is in this regard, that we join the Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers to request the Inspector- General of Police to reconsider this line of action. We run a federal system of government and cannot afford to have two Chief Executives in Rivers State at the same time; that’s clearly an invitation to anarchy. “For the avoidance of any ambiguity, we urge the Inspector-General of Police to do first things first, which is, enforcing the ban on inter-state movement as ordered by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It is the complete failure of the police in this regard that has worsened the COVID- 19 pandemic, not only in Rivers, but nationwide,” he said. The parliamentary caucus alleged that due to the negligence of the police and the security lapses at most state borders, Rivers State and indeed most states in Southern Nigeria have witnessed the influx of some unidentified young men hiding in trucks conveying food items at a time when the nation was facing a pandemic and interstate travel ban in place. 