The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID- 19 has said that it arrived at the decision to extend the first phase of the ease of lockdown because of current experiences from other countries, experts’ advice and history of global pandemics. Briefing newsmen at the team’s daily media conference, the PTF Chairman and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, cautioned the people against partisan distraction. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who also updated newsmen on the activities of his ministry, warned the people against self-medication owing to speculations that ingestion of chloroquine could either prevent or cure the virus. Mustapha, in his opening remarks yesterday, explained why the team resolved to extend first phase of the ease of the partial lockdown by another two weeks thus: “This well considered decision was taken out of an abundance of caution, current experiences from different countries and expert advice. I must add also that we were persuaded by the history of global pandemics because it is replete with evidence of exponential rise in pandemic upon early lifting of restrictions, for which the 1918 – 1920 influenza remains the most recent example in human history. “Nigeria, judging from these historical perspectives, must in our present approach, delicately balance between safety and economic considerations before we reopen the economy, fully. Again, I wish to repeat that the decision is not punitive, we share your pains and also share your concerns. However, our future remains in our hands and compliance is one of the keys to opening that future. “As we go into the first week of the extension of Phase One under the eased lockdown regime, we appeal once more to everyone, to diligently comply with measures put in place. Of particular importance is the need to obey the curfew, obey the ban on interstate travels, observe physical distancing, avoid large gatherings, observe personal and respiratory hygiene and align with the policy on use of masks/ covering. “I must also emphasise that the two additional weeks should be utilized by businesses, offices, professional bodies, places of worship, educational institutions, etc. awaiting reopening to plan and adopt new strategies under a COVID- 19 era in line with the guidelines. Above all, behavioural change is a must for every citizen because COVID-19 has changed the world completely.” On what to expect from the team in the next two weeks, he said: “The PTF COVID-19 is committed and determined to continue to provide the required leadership for this national response. In the coming days, intense consultations will be deepened with different segments of the society, including state governments, security agencies, religious and community leaders to ensure a coordinated implementation of the measures. “As I mentioned yesterday, specific directives have been issued to security agencies to strictly enforce the measures. I therefore admonish Nigerians to please observe the restrictions in full.” The PTF boss stressed the exemption of essential workers from the rules even as he urged them to always carry their requisite identification tags with them to avoid security harassment. As part of the team’s engagement, Mustapha said the PTF met with the Joint Health Committees of the National Assembly in order to seek further collaboration and support for the battle. He said: “We robustly presented the Health Sector Response to the pandemic. As expected, the interactive session was very useful and the PTF COVID-19 received a re-assurance of the support from the legislature.” Mustapha equally disclosed that the PTF’s communication strategy had been enhanced by the Public Relations Consultants Association of Nigeria (PRCAN). He advised that other extraneous issues, including questions on the whereabouts of the 15 Chinese doctors and that of the efficacy of the Madagascar COVID-19 vaccine should no longer be raised as they amount to distraction and waste of precious time. Responding to question on whether chloroquine could either prevent or cure COVID-19, the Minister of Health said such had not been clinically proven. He, however, disclosed that the drug was part of others undergoing clinical testing to determine their efficacy. 