Researchers from Australia have said that excess coffee consumption could result to poor health.  According to the findings of a new study from the Australian Centre for Precision Health at the University of South Australia, too much coffee can increase the risk of osteoarthritis, arthropathy (joint disease) and obesity.  Arthropathy is a term for any disease of the joints. Some examples are arthritis, Charcot joint and diabetic hand syndrome and the symptoms may include joint inflammation, joint deterioration, because of nerve damage and limited movement.  In earlier research conducted by Prof. Elina Hyppönen and her team, six cups of coffee a day were considered the upper limit of safe consumption.   However, Hyppönen said: “Globally, we drink around three billion cups of coffee each day; so it makes sense to explore the pros and cons of this on our health.   “In this study, we used a genetic approach called MR-PheWAS analysis to establish the true effects of coffee consumption against 1,117 clinical conditions.   “Reassuringly, our results suggest that moderate coffee drinking is mostly safe.  “But it also showed that habitual coffee consumption increased the risks of three diseases – osteoarthritis, arthropathy and obesity, which can cause significant pain and suffering for individuals with these conditions.”   Using data from over 300,000 participants in the United Kingdom (UK) Biobank, the researchers examined connections between genetically instrumented habitual coffee consumption and a full range of diseases, finding that too much coffee can increase the risk of osteoarthritis, arthropathy (joint disease) and obesity.   “Excess coffee consumption can lead to increased risks of certain diseases,” Hyppönen said.   “For people with a family history of osteoarthritis or arthritis, or for those who are worried about developing these conditions, these results should act as a cautionary message.   The ‘MedicalXpress’ reported: “The body generally sends powerful messages with respect to coffee consumption, so it’s imperative that individuals listen to these when consuming coffee.   “While these results are in many ways reassuring in terms of general coffee consumption, the message we should always remember is consume coffee in moderation; that’s the best bet to enjoy your coffee and good health too.”  