Former Nigeria international Benedict Akwuegbu has welcomed the decision of Nigeria Football Federation to tie Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr to the new contract. The President of the NFF Amaju Pinnick announced on Wednesday that the Franco-German tactician had finally signed his long-awaited new deal that will keep in charge of the team until after 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. Pinnick also stated that the Coach had been tasked to win the 2021 African Cup of Nations and also go beyond the group stage of the World Cup. While speaking to www. brila.net on the new performance clauses inserted in the contract, Akwuegbu said the federation was right to give the gaffer targets. “Yes, it is good to give him a target, We should win the next AFCON and get to the semi-final of the World Cup because we have the players to do that.” “I don’t think the targets will bring any pressure because that’s how it is all over the world and if the coach failed to meet the target, he will be sacked, it’s as simple as that,” he t o l d www.brila.net. Akwuegbu stressed further that Rohr had done well so far, but he believes he should also introduce a good system of play into the national teams. “Rohr has done well because he also brought stability and some young players into the team but he can also bring German spirit into the team. We know the Germans are hardworking and disciplined, we can imbibe that culture too.” “I also want to see him introduce the same style of play across all our national teams. “It’s important for all the national teams to have the same system of play, the same philosophy that’s how it’s been done all of the work, like during the time of Bonfrere Jo and Westerhoff everybody knows that Super Eagles operate from the wings. Rohr has to that as well and the system has to reflect in the U-17, U-20 and U-23”. Akwuegbu concluded. Akwuegbu who made 30 appearances for the Super Eagles and scored 8 goals was part of the Super Eagles squad that won a silver medal at the 2000 African Cup of Nations and he was also part of the few Nigerian players that featured at the FIFA U-17 and senior Wo r l d Cup. 