  W hen a beleaguered country like Nigeria gets into the cesspit of a global pandemic, one can easily imagine the ripple effect it will have on its citizenry. At a time when there are concerted global efforts at finding solution to this pandemic, Nigeria, the self-acclaimed giant of Africa, is looking like an unshepherded sheep, running amok in the wilderness of confusion. Apart from daily briefings by some uncreative appointees who prefer to operate under an oath of secrecy, there is nothing remarkable to show our stature as Africa’s giant. Ask the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, how much hazard allowance is being paid to essential health workers, he does not know. Ask the chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, how much has been released so far to combat this pandemic, he doesn’t know. Ask them how much donations we have received in form of grants and assistance, no one is willing to volunteer information.   Aside from the perception that the President might be in the inner confines of Aso Villa, the public is unaware of the whereabouts of the president. We just hear some seeming presidential vibrations from the Villa, especially, each time selected members of the PTF decide to debrief the President.   Many states have decided to take more proactive steps to nip the pandemic in the bud than even the Federal Government. The lockdown across the Federation has its untoward impact on economic activities, thus forcing the citizens to sometime take laws into their hands. In Rivers State, we have witnessed demolition of two hotels for offences relating to disobedience of the Governor’s Executive Order. In Lagos, we keep hearing threats from the Governor of a likely return to full blown lockdown because the people would simply not obey the protocols.   In Taraba, we have seen rejection of almajirai who were reportedly chased out of Nasarawa State in the midst of this pandemic. In Kaduna, we saw a visibly angry Governor El-Rufai at the border post along Kano road, turning people back to where they were coming from. The diminutive governor who had recently recovered from the virus has a damning story to tell about the pandemic. In Rivers, we have also seen Governor Wike built iron barricade on the ever busy Port Harcourt-Aba road. At the Port Harcourt airport, the governor had earlier arrested pilots that ferried some expatriates to the state, in what he termed disobedience of the executive order. In Anambra, people who attempted to use the cloak of darkness to smuggle themselves into the state, were turned back to where they came from. Kano State had deported almajirai to neighbouring Jigawa State, ditto for Katsina and some other Northern states.   Those are the unpalatable stories we are fed with as the pangs of the pandemic is ripping our economy apart, and further demolishing the harmony that ought to exist amongst the tribes in Nigeria. It is a story that exposes the internal liabilities that exist in us as a people with no defining and uniting ideology. It is a reality that further compounds our already complex situation as a federation of unholy alliances, presently driven by nepotism, clannishness and crass materialism. When states in the North now decide to reject almajirai within their zones, it becomes tellingly instructive that the fabric of our common identity is being scissored apart. Almajiri, a notorious name that has been corrupted to mean begging, has become a sore thumb in a country driven by rudderless leadership. When schools were built for this category of society’s dregs by previous government, the succeeding government converted the schools to some other uses. Rather than cultivate and sustain a policy to take these beggarly children and youths away from the streets, the government, both federal and states, are treating them with kid gloves because they become handy tools for manipulating elections.    Every Nigerian ought to enjoy certain pride of being a Nigerian within the geographic space of the country, but recent happenings in the midst of this pandemic have exposed the inherent contradictions in our dear fatherland.   Suddenly, Kano does not want to see Jigawa almajirai, Kaduna does not want to receive Kano almajirai, Nasarawa does not want to see Taraba almajirai. It goes to confirm that, even though they mass around these states, their places of origin, are also known. Before now, when Lagos State under Babatunde Fashola exited some almajirai during his tenure as Governor of Lagos State, it raised serious questions about our nationality and the place of the citizen in it. Now that the Northern states are deporting and exporting the almajirai, there is palpable conspiratorial silence that speaks to hypocrisy and double standards. That is the plight of a nation that lacks any clear-cut policy to deal with its youthful population. It is being degenerated by a political leadership that does not speak to what binds us as a people. Everything is being politicised along ethnic, religious and primordial sentiments. Almajirai are being treated like unwelcomed guests in their own country, some kind of plague that should be dreaded and avoided like the COVID-19 itself. Have they suddenly acquired that status? Now that the Northern Governors are waking up from slumber, who knows, maybe something tangible might point in the direction of taming this practice that has become synonymous with Northern culture.   The economic disconnections across the country which have further ebbed considerably as a consequence of this pandemic has further dealt a severe blow to a people with no discernible future; a future that is largely unplanned for. While the Federal Government has been opening up airports to receive returnees from different part of the world, it has postponed the resumption of domestic aviation activities in the country to further cripple our economy? What economic sense does this double standard portend for a country with economic fluctuations and social disconnections? Why not apply the same protocols that the returnees were treated with to open the domestic flights for the sake of our economy? Making a senseless four weeks postponement for resumption of aviation activities is an exercise in overkill. We must learn to live with this virus. We cannot afford to deepen the pains of unemployment, poverty, hunger and deprivations in a country that has shown itself as an awkwardly overgrown adult struggling to walk straight. We must take deliberate actions that will mitigate the unwholesome activities of almajirai and other forms of begging by exploring and exploiting our God-given potentials. President Buhari must come out from his cocoon to feel the air outside the confines of the Villa. He needs to feel the poisoned air that the people are breathing, he needs to see the huge population of beggars salaaming around major cities and towns across the country. He needs to feel the bad roads everywhere, the inhuman condition that the slums have become. Staying back at the Aso Villa does not speak to the reality that stares us in the face.   This pandemic, no doubt, has added to the growing industry of almajirai, who have become ubiquitous on our streets, highways, mosques and other places of worship. They swarm around public places almost uprooting you from your position. They demand help and alms with the ferocity of a creditor challenging his debtor. They speak in hushed tones demanding help with instructive verbiage. Some of them, for want of asserting that there is nothing like coronavirus, wash their hands with soap and drink the water. To them, coronavirus is synonymous with their pandemic state; looking unkempt, decrepit, wretched and permanently looking hungry, while their political elite wallow in stupendous riches. They speak to coronavirus as though they could feel it or see it, daring the virus to afflict them if it could. Now being rejected back home, they travel at night to states in the South to continue their trade with effortless ease. They risk the long windy journey on top of heavy duty trucks and trailers, with bare chest and shoeless limbs. When they get to their destination, there are no shelters to harbour them nor are they familiar with the terrain. They take to the streets in jubilant mood as though they have a new mine field to explore. This is the story of modern Nigeria where the government looks helplessly confused to generate a solution to this societal disease.   The fear of almajirai is becoming the beginning of wisdom. As much as coronavirus is becoming a pandemic that we must learn to live with, so much has the almajiri become so endemic for us to live with. Except the government is ready to pull the bull by the horn, we will continue to shy away from dealing with this problem for a long time to come. In a season of economic downturn, the threat of this category of Nigerians poses a double jeopardy.   