AKEEM NAFIU writes that beyond relaxing lockdown and imposition of curfew, lawyers are demanding a clear blueprint from President Muhammadu Buhari on how to take the country out of the woods amidst COVID-19 pandemic    L awyers were at the weekend unanimous in their demand from President Muhammadu Buhari for more actions on how to curtail the ravaging COVID-19 and rid the country of the virus with a view to freeing the country and its citizens of the pandemic burden.   The lawyers while speaking on the heels of Buhari’s recent COVID-19 address, believed that despite the fact that the broadcast attempted to reflect the minds of Nigerians on the need to ease the lockdown given the hunger and suffering going on across the nation, it fell short of providing any solution to the biting economic issues.   President Buhari had Monday last week while addressing Nigerians, among other measures, approved a phased and gradual easing of lockdown measures in FCT, Lagos and Ogun States effective from today.   He had by then extended the lockdown in the two states and the FCT by one week on the expiration of the initial four weeks’ cumulative shutdown. The president while noting that lockdowns have come at a very heavy economic cost with many citizens losing their means of livelihood said no country would afford the full impact of a sustained lockdown while awaiting the development of vaccines.   He said: “In these two weeks, the Federal and State Governments have jointly and collaboratively worked hard on how to balance the need to protect health while also preserving livelihoods, leveraging global best practices while keeping in mind our peculiar circumstances.   “We assessed how our factories, markets, traders and transporters can continue to function while at the same time adhering to NCDC guidelines on hygiene and social distancing. We assessed how our children can continue to learn without compromising their health.   “We reviewed how our farmers can safely plant and harvest in this rainy season to ensure our food security is not compromised. Furthermore, we also discussed how to safely transport food items from rural production areas to industrial processing zones and ultimately, to the key consumption centres.   “Based on the above and in line with the recommendations of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the various Federal Government committees that have reviewed socio-economic matters and the Nigeria Governors Forum, I have approved a phased and gradual easing of lockdown measures in FCT, Lagos and Ogun States effective from Monday, 4th May, 2020.   “However, this will be followed strictly with aggressive reinforcement of testing and contact tracing measures while allowing the restoration of some economic and business activities in certain sectors. “Furthermore, new nationwide measures are to be introduced as follows;   “There will be an overnight curfew from 8pm to 6am. This means all movements will be prohibited during this period except for essential services; “There will be a ban on non-essential inter-state passenger travel until further notice;   “Partial and controlled interstate movement of goods and services will be allowed for the movement of goods and services from producers to consumers; and   “We will strictly ensure the mandatory use of face masks or coverings in public in addition to maintaining physical distancing and personal hygiene. Furthermore, the restrictions on social and religious gatherings shall remain in place. State Governments, corporate organisations and philanthropists are encouraged to support the production of cloth masks for citizens”.   The president’s address has, however, generated reactions among some senior lawyers including the National President of a Civil Society Organization, the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Dr. Osagie Obayuwana. In a statement, the CDHR President noted that the reality on ground had shown that government needed to do more to curtail the spread of the contagious disease.  According to him, the measures adopted by the government so far did not appear to take into consideration the current stark realities facing the nation.   Obayuwana said: “While appreciating the commendation by Mr. President of the Nigerian people for our being resilient and patriotic, we cannot say the government has reciprocated in like manner.  “We feel it is too early for Mr. President to give himself kudos over the way his government has managed the pandemic, if we are to go by the increase in the statistics of the number of COVID-19 cases in the country.   “So far, we have not seen the measures put in place by the government yielding the much needed positive outcomes, as the reality on ground shows that government need to do more to curtail the spread of this contagious disease. The measures adopted by the government so far do not appear to take into consideration the current stark realities facing us as a nation.   “The most cheering aspect of the president’s address is the warning given to law enforcement agencies to respect the fundamental rights of citizens in the process of enforcing the different degrees of restrictions on the citizens’ freedom of movement. We admonish that this cannot serve to excuse from liability, those law enforcement officers who have already taken the lives of Nigerians. We insist that they should be arrested, charged and prosecuted now, to serve as a real deterrent and that compensation should be paid to families of the victims.   “We cannot understand or appreciate the necessity of the 8pm to 6am curfew other than be a part of the enforcement mechanism to keep the nation at a standstill, which is already proving counterproductive. We feel it is totally needless. “CDHR suggests that with an intensified enlightenment campaign on preventive practices (washing of hands regularly, wearing of face mask, social distancing, etc) utilizing the tool of reasoning with and persuading, the Nigerian people   can be freed from restrictions that are becoming increasingly unnecessary, as would allow people to continue to earn by producing goods and providing services with safety in mind.   “We believe that the flow of information from both the Federal and State Governments and their taskforces in dishing out orders and directives have been a one way traffic. The time has come to create avenues for popular input in the process of formulation and implementation of policies of management of the pandemic, especially in the era where citizens are clamouring for popular participation in the way they are being governed.   “A major omission on the part of Mr. President is the failure to concretely address the issue of the all-important testing facilities. The figures in Nigeria may appear not too alarming. This is perhaps because a lot of people who have been infected have not been tested. In this regard, Mr. President should publicly commend the initiatives of the government and people of Senegal and Madagascar, and at the highest level, invite collaboration with them in the areas of testing and treatment.”   A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Dr. Biodun Layonu, expressed fears that many COVID-19 cases might have gone unregistered going by the religious, social and cultural practices of Nigerians.   “All over the world, the purpose of lockdown is to slow down the spread of infection. Lockdown is not a cure. Further lockdown is to be accompanied by massive testing and tracing pending when ultimately a solution by way of vaccine or other alternatives will be found.   “Massive continuous testing and tracing will reveal more and more cases. That’s to be expected. For a country like Nigeria and given our religious, social and cultural practices, the numbers put out are absolutely inconsistent and cannot be right. We have far more undiscovered  and unregistered cases.   “People are getting tired all over the world of lockdowns especially in the developing countries where life is ordinarily marginal and a lot of people live day to day. I tell you any further lockdown beyond what’s in place will fail and people will simply defy the directives.   “The stated guidelines must be the new way of living by everyone and there’s need for massive and continuous education in this regard. The other positive approach is to encourage and research quickly into alternative medicine especially herbal and verify the claims being made by some people especially well educated orthodox professionals like pharmacists and other medics who have veered into herbal medicine, who knows? You can compare with what’s going on in Senegal and Madagascar”, the silk said.   Another silk, Ebun-olu Adegboruwa, said there’s a need for the president to re-address the nation because his latest speech was largely uninspiring and devoid of plans at tackling the core issues confronting Nigerians at the moment. He said: “In content and details, the broadcast was largely uninspiring as it did not address the core issues being faced by Nigerians in this COVID 19 era.   “No doubt the broadcast attempted to reflect the minds of Nigerians on the need to ease the lockdown given the hunger and suffering going on across the nation, but it fell short of providing any solution to the biting economic issues staring us all. COVID 19 has constituted a huge distraction from the economic catastrophe that the nation has fallen into, without a clear blueprint from the President on his plans to take us out of the woods.  “Prior to COVID 19, the president had set up a Presidential Economic Team that was to be reporting to him directly and nothing has been heard from that Team since then. After COVID 19, the President also set up another economic team to work out how Nigeria will respond to the economic issues post-COVID 19. The president did not address this in his broadcast.  “Prior to the president’s broadcast, his media aides had informed the nation that the President had met with the Minister of Health and the Director-General of NCDC to take reports from them. Both of them had earlier informed Nigerians that there were no more testing kits and other valuable reagents. The president did not address this critical issue.   “There was nothing in the president’s broadcast about efforts being made to rebuild the health system, which the head of the COVID 19 Task Force (the SGF) admitted had become inadequate. Ghana is building 90 world class hospitals post-COVID 19.   “Curfew cannot work in Lagos State because of its peculiar traffic situations. People are usually up and on the road by 4a.m. from the Mainland and from Ogun State to the Island and they close and stay in traffic till midnight, most of the time. With interstate lockdown and night curfew, most people working in Lagos from Ogun and Oyo States cannot meet up. The president should have consulted with the governors of these states.   “The other point is that of the palliatives, which are not getting to the people that need them. The president should involve mass-based entities and the civil society.   “There is therefore the need for another presidential broadcast, to address the major issues of the economy. Nigeria is heavy and reeking in debts; its revenue profile is abysmally low now due to the fall in the prices of oil. With the closure of land and air borders, the Customs cannot do much, and IGR will be low, given that the private sector has been down for about two months now. The major question now is the fate of workers in the private sector, as to issues of salaries, pay cuts and likely job losses, all of which will lead to more unrests, increase in crime and poverty. The president should consider major incentives to the private sector and the SMES in order to inspire economic growth”. A rights activist, Kabir Akingbolu, also described the president’s address as nothing more than a nursery rhyme to Nigerians.   Akingbolu said: “The speech of the president on preventive measures to contain the pandemic is nothing more than a nursery rhyme to many Nigerians. This is because majority of Nigerians are not expecting any further lockdown or if there is going to be any further restriction of movement or business, they expect that government will put in place workable and pleasant programme that will reduce the burden of the lockdown to ease the negative consequences.  “Unfortunately, the speech came as dry and as unsavoury as usual. There was no established means of distributing palliatives and relief materials to the people. And to worsen the situation, the government was only reeling out high figures of the billions it has spent purportedly as palliatives for the people but the claims appear as mere ruse and unnecessary political chicaneries.   “This is because even though the president did mention in his speech what it has spent on palliatives, it is more of pseudo palliative than real because the number of people purportedly given the reliefs are rather imagined than real as nobody knew how the government generated the names of the beneficiaries.   “That apart, the number of people claimed by the government to have benefitted from the scheme is too insignificant to ever be meaningful in the scheme of things because according to the government, the number of people who purportedly benefitted are one million and this is less than 0.3 per cent of the population of Nigeria which is likely above 200million.   “The interstate movement restriction has no definitive day of commencement. The partial relaxation of the lockdown permitting movement from morning till evening though a welcome development has its limitations in the failure of government to back it up with palliatives. “Also, there is the compelling need to enforce the law strictly. And one tends to also ask questions as to why people can move in day time and not at night when there is no scientific proof yet to show that the virus is only active at night. Thus, the curfew is unnecessary.   “Besides, if parents are allowed to go about their daily businesses why should students not be allowed to resume especially those who were about writing exams which could be done in batches? Government needs to take a second look at this.”   Wale Ogunade expressed deep concern at government’s failure to ensure evenly distribution of palliatives to Nigerians.   He said: “I think the extension of the lockdown by another one week is okay. But, unfortunately for about five weeks now, the palliatives have not gotten round. I have called around Abuja, Lagos, even Ogun States, where I make calls and my people in all these places told me they have not seen any palliative.   “Now, if people don’t get palliative and they have no means of going out to work, then, this is an invitation to anarchy. Unfortunately, there is nothing on ground to cushion the effect of the spread of the disease. By the time people start to move around by the 4th of May, we may have an implosion in the number of Coronavirus cases and only God knows how it will go.   “I also think that the Federal Government now has the opportunity to rejig its welfare scheme for Nigerians by ensuring that those that have been given the responsibility of making things work live up to expectations.” 