TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the new Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mojisola Meranda   The Lagos State House of Assembly recently witnessed a political drama that was characterised by intrigues, accusations and counter-accusations. The House had to the shock of many removed its Chief Whip, Hon. Rotimi Abiru, representing Somolu II Constituency and Deputy Majority Leader, Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh, representing Apapa II Constituency. Two other members of the House, Moshood Oshun (Lagos Mainland Constituency II) and Kazeem Raheem Adewale (Ibeji Lekki Constituency II), were also suspended indefinitely during the day plenary. The Speaker of the House, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, announced the removal of the two principal officers and suspension of the other two members, exactly on a day that marked one year after the election of the lawmakers into the legislative chamber. Few hours after the removal of Abiru and Jimoh as principal officers, the state legislators announced Hon. Noheem Adams from Eti-Osa Constituency 1 as the Deputy Majority Leader and Mojisola Meranda representing Apapa Constituency 1 as the new Chief Whip. Before their election, Noheem was the chairman of the House Committee on Public-Private Partnerships, while Meranda was in charge of the Committee on Job Creation. Though the suspended legislators have been recalled, the former principal officers were not reinstated to their respective positions as both Adams and Mirinda retained their new positions as Deputy Minority Leader and Chief Whip, respectively. To many people, the emergence of Meranda as Chief Whip is a clear indication that she is one of the lawmakers to be reckoned with in the Lagos State House of Assembly. As a woman, she has proved her worth in the mendominated state Assembly. Hon. Meranda is the first female to have ever represented her constituents in the state legislative arm. Daughter of the late Ojora of Ijora, Oba Taoreed Akapo Lawal, the lawmaker was born on August 16, 1980. She had her primary education at Randle Avenue Primary School, Surulere from 1986-1992 and proceeded to Lagos Anglican Girls Grammar School (1992 to 1996) and Ansar-ud-Deen Secondary School (1996 to 1998) for her secondary education. In her quest for knowledge in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector, she had Advanced Certification in Software Development from National Institute of Information Technology (NIIT) in 2005 and later attended Lagos State University (LASU), where she graduated in 2013 with B.Sc Public Administration. A member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Hon. Meranda has proved her worth as one, who is passionate about service delivery in corporate and public organisations. She worked for many years in some notable organisations, especially in the oil and gas sector before venturing to partisan politics. She also worked as Personal Assistant to the Director, Land Information System Support Unit, Office of Surveyor General, Lagos State, from October 2003 to September 2007; Procurement Manager, Cirrus Nigeria Ltd (oil and gas) from September 2007 to May 2008 and Head of Operations, Worthline International Services Ltd (oil and gas) from June 2008 to December 2011. The new Chief Whip of the Lagos Assembly is also passionate about alleviating the pains and suffering of the people, espe-cially those at the grassroots and downtrodden. Her determination to render public service made her to venture into partisan politics at a younger age. She was a member of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) that transformed to the Action Congress (AC) and later Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) before it merged with other political parties to form the All Progressives Congress (APC). A dynamic political team player, Meranda served as Senior Special Assistant on Intervention and Inter-governmental Relations in Apapa Local Government Area. She later got elevated to serve as the Supervisory Councillor for Health in the same local government and has been a team player in the day-to-day health care delivery programmes in the local government till date. Prior to the 2015 elections, Meranda threw her hat into the ring to represent Apapa II Constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly. She worked tirelessly and embarked on grassroots mobilisation and wide consultation, which gave her an edge above other aspirants. She took part in the APC primaries and defeated the then incumbent and other two aspirants to emerge as the party’s flag bearer for the 2015 House of Assembly election. She won the poll and was inaugurated as the representative of Apapa I in the House. Within a year in the legislative chamber, she distinguished herself as a lawmaker to be reckoned with and her commitment to the legislative business and other matters in the House earned her Lagos State House of Assembly Correspondents Association Award of Excellence as Most Media Friendly Lawmaker (Female) 2016. She was re-elected during the May 9, 2019 House of Assembly election. As part of her commitment to give back to the community and her constituents, Hon. Meranda in the last five years, has not only put smiles on the faces of millions of people through robust representation at the Lagos State Assembly, but empowered her constituents through many constituency projects and empowerment programmes. 