 A Kaduna Mobile Court has convicted a renowned Islamic cleric, Sheikh Yusuf Sambo Rigachukun, and his son, for violating the quarantine order aimed at curbing the spread of coronavirus.  An Army General was also intercepted for carrying three people who did not wear face masks. The state Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Aisha Dikko, said in a statement yesterday that the duo were arrested at Kaduna State University (KASU) junction, for violating the stay at home order and not wearing face masks.  The commissioner also said the cleric told the court that he was invited by Kaduna State Media Corporation (KSMC) for a radio programme, which explained why he was not observing the lockdown order.  She said: ‘’Rigachukun and his son were both charged for not wearing face masks and were fined N5,000 each. “In addition, the court asked the cleric to perform community service, by informing the public on how to stop the spread of Covid-19.’’ Dikko also warned Kaduna residents to desist from violating the lockdown order.   She also said that the Army General was arrested at the ‘’Toll Gate’’ area of Kaduna-Abuja Expressway last Tuesday.  She added that the General, who was in full uniform, was intercepted while driving in from Abuja with three other passengers who had no face masks. The commissioner, however, did not give the name of the General.  She said: “The General identified himself and said he was coming from Abuja and on an official duty. However, the court (the Kakuri Mobile Court) tried and convicted the other three passengers, for not complying with the stay at home order and wearing face masks.’’  Dikko also disclosed that 75 culprits were convicted out of 105 people who violated the ban on inter-state travel at the boundary between Kaduna State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as well as the Kaduna-Katsina State boundary last week.  She said the suspects were apprehended by senior officials of Kaduna State government who were patrolling the boundaries. According to her, the suspects were handed over to the various mobile courts. The commissioner warned that violators of the COVID-19 Partial Lockdown Order 2020 would be fined and in addition, might undergo community service for seven days. 