S imeon Nwakaudu, the special assistant on Electronic Media to Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, died in Port Harcourt yesterday during a brief illness. Nwakaudu, who was actively on duty since the state government waged war against the spread of coronavirus, died of undisclosed ailment at the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital (RSUTH). Wike has expressed shock over Nwakaudu’s sudden death. He described the deceased “as a loyal and dedicated professional who contributed immensely to the implementation of the the New Rivers Vision.” The governor, who spoke in a statement… A s Bayelsa State COVID-19 Task force destroyed the GSM village in Tombia Etegwe Roundabout in Yenagoa, the state capital, Igbo traders in the state have lamented the demolition of their stalls and loss of goods worth billions of naira, threatening to leave the state. They called on the state government to open the borders closed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, so they could go back to their villages since their source of income and livelihood had been destroyed in a manner that was not only sinister, but… S ome years ago, precisely year 2001, I became disillusioned with the nation Nigeria to the point that I was praying for the peaceful separation of Nigeria. I was shocked when the Lord spoke to my heart quite simply and quietly that the breaking up of Nigeria is not the solution to our problem in Nigeria. He explained to me that, in our diversity lies our strength, if we could muster the talent of each Nigerian, each state and each zone to the wellbeing of all. He said Nigeria has… B udgIT, a civic organisation committed to fiscal transparency, has launched its COVID-19 platform for the effective tracking and monitoring of the utilization of all donations from both local and international donors for COVID-19 response.     In a statement, the organisation said the platform hosted on (https://civichive.org/covidtracka/), through the network of its project tracking officers across the country, would also monitor the distribution of palliatives to the underprivileged and vulnerable communities across all states.     It stated: “The recent crash in global oil prices and reduced demand for… Attempted jail break at the Nigeria Correction Service (NCS), Aba, Abia State at the weekend left one inmate dead. Four others sustained serious gunshot injuries.   Sources around the prisons said some inmates on Saturday afternoon tried breaking away from the prisons, but met strong resistance from some prisons arm guards. An impeccable source told our reporter that the inmates, who were armed with sticks and bottles, inflicted serious injuries on some prison guards, who shot at the rampaging inmates.   The source added that the situation was surprising to… On Monday, May 18, former Inspector-General of Police, Suleiman Abba, assumes office as chairman, Board of Trustees of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund.     That is a big deal.     It is momentous not only because the Trust Fund finally began operations almost one year after the Nigeria Police Trust Fund (Establishment) Bill was signed into law, but also because of the quality of leadership empanelled to superintend its affairs.     Many Nigerians agree that Abba’s appointment is consequential, the axiomatic round… The African Business Coalition for Health (ABC Health) yesterday announced the appointment of Mories Atoki as Chief Executive Officer. That was following a unanimous agreement of its Board of Directors.     A statement made available to New Telegraph yesterday said the new CEO brings to the Coalition, years of experience as senior manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, where she pioneered and led the firm’s Sustainability & Climate Change practice.     The Coalition said in the release that she is a member of the Advisory Board of Partners for Review (P4R),… T he National Pension Commission (PenCom) said it has handed the management of First Guarantee Pension Limited over to a reconstituted Board of Directors under the Chairmanship of Alhaji Kashim Ibrahim Imam with Hon. Tsegba Terngu, Hon. Ahmed Salik, Dr. Pat Asadu, and Hon. George I. Ozodinobi as members.     A statement by PenCom’s spokesman, Peter Aghahowa, noted that concurrently, the Commission has dissolved the Interim Management Committee it appointed on 12 August, 2011.     “The Commission wishes to inform stakeholders in the Nigerian Pension Industry… T he Board of Directors, Management and Staff of Guinea Insurance have joined the entire insurance business community and all professionals of repute in celebrating the confirmation of Sunday Thomas as substantive Commissioner for Insurance/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) by President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR.     The company, in a letter sent to the NAICOM boss, noted that the recognition bestowed on him was an indication of his strength of character, high probity and capacity to re-invent and attain feats others consider impossible, adding that many people… P olice yesterday paraded  a suspected kidnapper, who participated in the killing of Dr. Nandi Drenkat, a lecturer with the University of Jos. The kidnappers also abducted Drenkat’ s six-year-old daughter.   The gunmen attacked the University of Jos Staff Quarters on Friday night and shot dead the lecturer. The state Commissioner of Police, Edward Egbua, while briefing journalists during the parade at the Police Headquarters, said his men also recovered one AK 47 rifle, 29 rounds of live ammunition and rescued the six-year-old girl as well as two…