There is nothing as embarrassing as having black knees.   Black knees give bad impression. A beauty expert ince said that, if you wand to know if a woman is clean, look at her knees and elbows.   I remember back in those days, my grandmother forbade us from kneeling for too long. Her reason was that it it the main cause for dark knees and it is not good for a woman’s knees to be black. It shows lack of hygiene culture in the woman. So, kneeling down was not part of her discipline routine.   Dark knees are ugly to look at when wearing shorts or a mini dress.   To get rid of this ugly skin, the home remedies below have been tested to work like magic.   Baking soda and milk for Dark Knees Ingredients • 1 tablespoon baking soda • 1 tablespoon milk   What you have to do Mix the milk and the baking soda.   Apply this mixture on the knees and elbows and gently scrub in circular motions for two to three minutes. Rinse with water.   How often to apply   Repeat this every alternate day until the pigmentation fades. How it works Baking soda is a great exfoliant and will not only cleanse the skin but also remove dead cells (1). The lactic acid and amino acids present in milk smoothen the skin and moisturize it. The antioxidants found in milk will ensure that the skin remains healthy for a long period (2).   Pumice stone   Pumice stone Warm water   How to use Take a shower with warm water.    Gently scrub the knees and elbows using a pumice stone. Use circular motions. Rinse with cool water.   How to apply Scrub your knees and elbows two to three times in a week.  How it works Exfoliating your knees and elbows using a pumice stone helps in removing the dark, dead skin cells.   Lemon for dark knees  Fresh lemon juice  What You Have To Do  Squeeze out the juice from a lemon and apply this on the knees and elbows.   Keep it on for an hour or until it completely dries.   Rinse with water.   How often to apply   Do this every day to get rid of your dark knee caps.   How it works   Lemon juice acts as a bleaching agent that can make your knees and elbows brighter (11). 