Fresh facts emerged last night on why President Muhammadu Buhari did not mention anything about the shooting of #ENDSARS protesters in Lekki Tollgate on Tuesday night, during a nationwide broadcast yesterday because it would be “premature and presumptuous.”  Recall that President Buhari had kept mum over the shootings during his presidential broadcast, which many Nigerians described as deliberate and callous.  The President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, who appeared on Politics Today, a live show  on Channel Televisions monitored by Saturday Telegraph, however, said the President couldn’t have said anything about the shooting because it was being investigated.  He said: “The Defence Headquarters issued a statement to say that it was investigating the matter. Lagos State Governor has also set up a probe panel to investigate what really happened.   “So, the President couldn’t have said anything because it would be premature and presumptuous while investigation is ongoing. It is after investigation has been concluded that he can speak on the matter.”   A Second Republic lawmaker, Junaid Muhammad, yesterday took a swipe on President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the lingering security situation in the country, insisting that the President’s penchant to pretence that all was well and there are no problems in the country aggravated the backlash… October 24, 2020 In "News" *Defers to Lagos Gov's inquiry commission   Emmanuel Onani, Abuja   The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has sued for calm over the shooting incident at the Lekki Tollgate in Lagos, Tuesday, saying any position now has the potential of prejudicing the outcome of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry instituted by the… October 22, 2020 In "News" The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has sued for calm over the shooting incident at the Lekki Tollgate in Lagos, Tuesday, saying any position now has the potential of prejudicing the outcome of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry instituted by the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu.   The tragic incident,… October 23, 2020 In "News"