The candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the September 19 government election in Edo State, Mr. Iboi Lucky Emmanuel, and his party yesterday filed a petition at the Edo Election Petition Tribunal, sitting in Benin, the state capital, to challenge the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki, the Peoples Democratic  Party (PDP) candidate in the poll.  The filling of the petition came barely a day the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, announced his resolve not to challenge the outcome of the election, but to purse the two pre-election matters he had earlier instituted against Governor Obaseki, who won the election on the platform of the PDP.  Iboi and the ADP, in their petition before the tribunal, are challenging the re-election of Governor Obaseki on several grounds, part of which bothers on the eligibility of the governor to contest the poll in the first instance because of the irregularities in his candidacy and his certificate, as well as the fact that he participated in both the APC and PDP primaries.  The petitioners, therefore, joined the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the PDP, Governor Obaseki, the APC and Ize-Iyamu as 1st to 5th respondents in the petition. In the petition, they stated that the university degree certificate submitted by the 3rd respondent, Godwin Noghehase Obaseki, which was issued by the University of Ibadan (UI) was defective.      Barely few weeks to the governorship election in Edo State, scheduled for September 19, the leadership and members of the state chapter of Action Democratic Party (ADP) have defected to the People's Democratic Party (PDP) and expressed their support for Governor Godwin Obaseki in his quest for re-election. Through the… July 8, 2020 In "News" Tomorrow’s governorship election in Edo State promises to be an interesting but fierce battle as political gladiators go neck-and-neck into a poll that has been characterised by intrigues and a tensed build-up, FELIX NWANERI reports It is a deciding weekend for the people of Edo as voters in the state… September 18, 2020 In "Politics" The attention of the world is today focused on Edo State as the people file out to either return their governor or elect a new state helmsman for the next four years. As the countdown to the governorship election ends today, ONYEKACHI EZE who was in the state, looks at… September 19, 2020 In "Politics"