 Following the violence that has trailed the #EndSARS protests in some parts of the country, the Federal Government has warned that it will not allow the country to be thrown into anarchy.
The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, stated this on Saturday when he featured on a late-night Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) news programme, “Weekend File: “EndSARS Protest: The Way Forward.”
The minister said Saturday’s assassination attempt on the Osun Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, while addressing the protesters was a clear confirmation that the protests had been hijacked by hoodlums and people with ulterior agenda.
He noted that while the original conveners of the protests might have meant well, it was obvious that they were no longer in control of the initiative.
“Peaceful protest is an integral part of democracy and that is why the Federal Government in the last 11 days has treated the protesters in a very civilised manner.
“But, if you look at what happened to the governor of Osun State, it has gone completely beyond peaceful protest against excesses and abuse of power by the police.
“There is no where in the world where a government will folds its arms and allow the country to descend into anarchy.
“We are no longer dealing with #EndSARS but a volatile situation that can lead to anarchy if government does not take some very firm steps to protect the lives and livelihood of innocent Nigerians,” he said.
The minister added that the protests have gone beyond being peaceful because lives have been lost and innocent Nigerians, including workers and students, are passing through harrowing experiences.
Specifically, he said because the protesters are blocking the roads and highway, workers are finding it difficult to get to their offices and back home while many Nigerians are stranded on the roads.
“We have nothing against peaceful protest but there are civilised ways of doing so.
“This is by going to a venue where you are not going to disturb other Nigerians because where your own right stops, other persons’ right begins,” he said.
Mohammed said Nigerians should also see the protests as a smokescreen staged to undermine the administration and destabilise the country because all the demands by the protesters had been met by the government.
He reiterated that after the government had responded and met all the demands of the protesters, they ought to have nothing doing on the streets.
He recalled that the protesters on inception came with five demands including, that all arrested protesters should be released immediately and justice must be given to deceased victims of SARS including adequate compensation to be paid to their families.
The minister said the protesters equally demanded that there should be an independent committee to oversee the investigations and prosecution of any members of SARS found guilty of extrajudicial killings.
He said they demanded that all personnel of the disbanded SARS must undergo psychological and medical evaluation as well as retraining before they should be redeployed to other services of the Police.
The protesters also demanded that the salary of the police should be increased in a manner that will be adequately compensated for protecting lives and property of citizens.  Govt not behind attack –Commissioner Demonstrators barricade National Assembly FCTA bans streets protests in Abuja Lawyers, students, artists join protests in Delta, Edo, Ebonyi Again, violence erupted in Lagos yesterday as armed thugs unleashed mayhem on the 'End SARS' protesters. The attack occurred at Alausa, the seat of the Lagos… October 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...hold Jumat prayer, candlelight vigil, share food, drinks Activities were grounded in parts of Benin, the Edo State capital as two persons were feared dead during a violent clash between pro and anti- End$ARS protesters in the state. Similarly, one of the protesters of #EndSARS in Akure, the Ondo State… October 17, 2020 In "News" •Disrupt Obasanjo's Owu Day festival •Oyetola, NANS appeal for caution A bystander was shot and killed in Ogbomoso in Oyo State, southwest Nigeria, on Saturday by the policemen dispersing #EndSARS protesters. It was unclear if Jimoh Isiaq was among the young Nigerians protesting against police brutality before he was shot.… October 11, 2020 In "News"