Govs fail to sign 2,962 condemned inmates’ warrants There are indications that efforts by the Federal Government towards decongesting correctional centres across the country may not have yielded much, as the population of awaiting trial inmates currently stands at a staggering 46,496. This is as the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCoS) has expressed worries over the huge statistics which, it insisted, impacted negatively on rehabilitation efforts. According to the NCoS, the total inmates’ population as at today, is 64,062, with 14,604 already convicted, while 2,962 are condemned and awaiting execution. Investigation by New Telegraph revealed that the failure by governors to sign death warrants of the 2,962 condemned inmates, has not helped the decongestion programme of the government. This newspaper gathered that there is a “silent moratorium” on endorsement of death warrants by governors, whose written consents are required, before execution triggers are fired. Since the nation’s return to democracy in 1999, Edo seems to be the only state that witnessed execution of condemned criminals in 2013, and 2016, according to reports. The NCoS has blamed the awaiting trial conundrum on the inherent delays in the justice system, occasioned by adjournments, inconclusive investigations, among others. Spokesperson for the Service, Mr. Augustine Njoku, a Deputy Comptroller, while weighing in on the issue, said judges handling various criminal cases, were often appointed to election petitions tribunals, with consequential delays attending such matters. He also frowned on what he described as “unnecessary delays by lawyers”, through motions (written or oral) for adjournments, interlocutory applications and the like. “The problem has been there over time. The judicial system is slow and there are some unnecessary delays by lawyers seeking adjournments and injunctions that are not actually called for. “Other reasons may be inconclusive investigations by the investigating agencies, holidays by judges or courts and the fact that the judges are saddled with so many electoral and other special cases needing urgent hearing. These might be some of the reasons. “The high number of awaiting trial inmates does not give us at penal administration enough room to rehabilitate them properly,” Njoku said.  Lagos State Government has assured inmates in correctional centres of free legal representation during hearings of cases in the courts with a view to decongesting the prison and fast tracking justice system.   Director and Directorate of Citizens Rights, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Odusanya gave the assurance during her quarterly visit to… September 21, 2020 In "News" E nugu State Chief Judge (CJ), Justice Priscilla Emehelu, has set 24 inmates free from two different custodial centres within the state.     Emehelu, who was assisted by other judges in the state, also granted bail to 53 other inmates from Nsukka and Enugu Custodial Centres.   At the… July 6, 2020 In "Law" ..as population of prison inmates rises to 9,053 Indications have emerged that the Lagos State has captured 30,107 criminals Lagos Criminal Information System (LCIS) across the state. This was even as it was learnt that number prison inmates in Lagos prisons which have capacity for only 3,872 has risen to… August 27, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"