Mesut Ozil has reacted after being axed from Arsenal’s 25-man Premier League squad, claiming “loyalty is hard to come by”. Mikel Arteta left the German out of his official squad for the 2020-21 top-flight season on Tuesday, having kept him on the sidelines since the Gunners’ return to action post-lockdown back in June. That decision has proven to be the last straw for the midfielder, who has posted a message to his followers on social media outlining his disappointment. “This is a difficult message to write to the Arsenal fans that I’ve played for over the past few years. I’m really deeply disappointed by the fact that I have not been registered for the Premier League season for the time being,” Ozil said on Twitter and Instagram. “Upon signing my new contract in 2018, I pledged my loyalty and allegiance to the club that I love, Arsenal, and it saddens me that this has not been reciprocated. As I have just found out, loyalty is hard to come by nowadays. “I’ve always tried to remain positive from week to week that there’s maybe a chance to get back in the squad soon again. That’s why I kept silent so far. “Before the coronavirus break, I was really happy with the development under our new coach, Mikel Arteta – we’ve been on a positive way and I would say my performances were on a really good level. “But then, things changed, again, and I was no longer allowed to play football for Arsenal. What else can I say? London still feels like home, I still have many good friends in this team, and I still feel a strong connection with fans of this club. “No matter what, I will keep fighting for my chance and not let my eighth season at Arsenal end like this. I can promise you that this hard decision won’t change anything in my mindset – I will continue to train as best as I can and wherever possible use my voice against inhumanity and for justice.”  *Vows to see out his contract Arsenal midfielder Mesut Ozil says he will stay with the club "through to the last day" of his contract in June 2021. The former Germany international, 31, has not played since the Premier League resumed in June, with manager Mikel Arteta citing "pure football… August 13, 2020 In "Sports" Mikel Arteta wants Mesut Özil to feel “hurt and disappointed” at his continued absence from the Arsenal team and has again challenged the player to show he is prepared to operate at his full potential over the remainder of the season. Özil has not featured since the Premier League… July 1, 2020 In "Sports" Arsenal Technical Director Edu has offered Mesut Ozil a lifeline by insisting that any player who performs well enough in training can win a place in Mikel Arteta’s squad. Ozil did not play a minute of football for Arsenal after the Premier League’s restart in June and played no part… September 11, 2020 In "Sports"