Police have killed six suspected Boko Haram members who earlier attacked Babbangida town in Tarmuwa Local Government Area of Yobe State. A policeman was also killed in the encounter.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Dungus Abdulkarim, disclosed this yesterday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Damaturu. Abdulkarim said the six suspected terrorists were shot dead by mobile police personnel protecting the division.  He said: “Our mobile police personnel held their ground and exchanged gunfire with the terrorists, killing six of them while many others fled with gunshot wounds.  “The terrorists torched a vigilance group’s vehicle. They also destroyed part of the council secretariat, Divisional Police Station and a military base before they were repelled.” The PPRO added that a policeman was killed while another was injured during the gun battle.  A terrorist attack on Babbangida town on Saturday evening led to the destruction of some government assets and caused panic among the residents.  Bandits have killed 14 people in communities in Katsina and Niger states. Eight people were shot dead in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State while six vigilantes were murdered in a renewed attack on Kagara town in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State. In the Katsina State attack,… October 13, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ..injure others, steal arms, ammunition Youths protest, demand probe of attack Armed men on Monday night attacked a Divisional Police Station in Igueben Local Government Area of Edo State and killed two officers. The heavily armed men also carted away arms and ammunition. A police inspector and a constable (names… November 11, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Emmanuel Onani Abuja   Friday's attack on the convoy of Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, att Barwati village, Borno State, by suspected terrorists, will not dampen the morale of security personnel prosecuting the counterinsurgency war.   The Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, who disclosed this, said the… September 28, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"