  A Philippine police officer has been killed by a rooster during a raid on an illegal cockfight in the province of Northern Samar.
Lieutenant Christine Bolok was struck by the rooster’s gaff – a razor-sharp steel blade which is typically attached to the leg of fighting roosters, reports the BBC.
The blade cut his left thigh, slicing his femoral artery. He was rushed to hospital and declared dead on arrival.
Cockfighting has been banned during the virus outbreak.
Before the pandemic, it was allowed only in licensed cockpits on Sundays and legal holidays, as well as during local fiestas lasting a maximum of three days, according to the government news wire The Philippine News Agency (PNA).
Provincial police chief Colonel Arnel Apud told news agency AFP that the accident was “unfortunate”, calling it “a piece of bad luck that I cannot explain”.
“I could not believe it when it was first reported to me. This is the first time in my 25 years as a policeman that I lost a man due to a fighting cock’s spur.”
The police chief also sent his “deepest sympathy” to the victim’s family, said PNA.
Three people were arrested and seven fighting roosters, two sets of gaff and 550 Philippine Peso ($11; £8) were confiscated, reported PNA.
Three other suspects remain at large.
Cockfighting is popular in the Philippines, typically attracting large crowds who bet on the outcome of fights between the birds.  Recent attacks and killings of policemen and officers across the country are giving stakeholders the jitters, according to New Telegraph investigations These are certainly not the best of times for personnel of the Nigerian Police as many of them continued to come under violent attacks in different parts of the… March 4, 2021 In "Insight" Florida police shot and killed a man wanted for attempted murder on Saturday after the suspect opened fire on officers, striking one of them during a “gun battle," officials said. The officer was hit in his bullet-proof vest and suffered a bruise to his chest from the impact, Daytona Beach Police Chief Craig Capri told reporters.… August 30, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Sir Mike Okiro is a retired Inspector- General of Police and former Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC). Now a security consultant and lawyer, Okiro, in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE analyses the security situation in the country and general policing, advocating strong political will on the part of… May 2, 2021 In "Sunday Magazine"