 Boris Johnson will hold talks with the head of the EU Commission – a day after she began legal action over his plan to potentially override the Brexit deal.
Ursula von der Leyen and the prime minister are due to talk on Saturday afternoon.
A Number 10 spokesperson said it is to “take stock of negotiations and discuss next steps”.
Brussels confirmed the news and added the conversation will be taking place over a video call.
While the two leaders will likely be focusing on trade talks to hammer out an agreement before the transition period runs out at the end of 2020, Ms von der Leyen’s action yesterday will inevitably feature.
She accused Johnson of breaching the “good faith” part of the withdrawal agreement, by drawing up a plan to override it in the event trade talks are unsuccessful.
A minister has admitted the move would break international law.
Before Johnson and Ms von der Leyen’s call, the UK and EU’s two chief trade negotiators – Lord David Frost and Michel Barnier – will meet today.  The EU Commission says it will start legal action against Boris Johnson's bid to potentially override parts of the Brexit deal. Brussels claims the prime minister is breaching the "good faith" promise both sides signed up to in the withdrawal agreement struck and passed by parliament last year. President… October 1, 2020 In "News" •AGF amends lawyers’ rules of professional conduct, NBA kicks   Controversies have continued to trail the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami’s (SAN) alleged unilateral amendment of the Rules of Professional Conduct for lawyers.   Malami is reported to have amended the Rules of Professional… September 20, 2020 In "News" The dollar held steady against a basket of currencies on Tuesday as financial markets braced for the first U.S. presidential debate, while traders also tracked developments on the U.S. stimulus bill. The dollar index was unchanged at 94.209, drifting away from a two-month high of 94.745 reached last week,… September 29, 2020 In "Business"