*Confirms one death in state broadcast on
#EndSARS attack Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has broken his silence on Saturday’s attack on his convoy by armed thugs.
Oyetola, his deputy Benedict Alabi and some other members of the state executive, narrowly escaped death on Saturday when thugs attacked them after addressing #ENDSARS protesters in Osogbo, the state capital.
Speaking in a state wide broadcast on Sunday morning, Governor Oyetola described the incident as unfortunate and against the Omoluabi ethos.
He said he joined the #EndSARS protesters by marching from Alekuwodo area to meet the protesters at Ola-Iya junction where he addressed them.
“However, the protest was hijacked by thugs who wanted to kill me. We escaped from the scene without shoot or firing teargas to them.
“But after the incident, we gathered that two people died. One of them died as a result of a bike accident.”
He said the attack was politically motivated and targeted at killing him and other executive members of the state.  * Deputy Governor shot at There was an attempt Saturday on the life of the Governor of Osun State, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola. Armed with guns, cutlasses, axes hoodlums swooped on the governor at Olaiya junction, while he was addressing the #EndSARS protesters in the state capital. Governor Oyetola had joined… October 17, 2020 In "News" There was an attempt Saturday on the life of the Governor of the State of Osun, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola. Armed with guns, cutlasses, axes hoodlums swooped on the Governor at Olaiya junction, while he was addressing the #EndSARS protesters at the state capital.   Governor Oyetola had joined protesters in… October 18, 2020 In "News" •Disrupt Obasanjo's Owu Day festival •Oyetola, NANS appeal for caution A bystander was shot and killed in Ogbomoso in Oyo State, southwest Nigeria, on Saturday by the policemen dispersing #EndSARS protesters. It was unclear if Jimoh Isiaq was among the young Nigerians protesting against police brutality before he was shot.… October 11, 2020 In "News"