…as Chelsea triumph in Russia Marcus Rashford came off the bench to score a clinical hat-trick as Manchester United continued their recent momentum by taking apart RB Leipzig in the Champions League.
England international Rashford came on just after the hour mark and netted three goals in 18 minutes, first running clear to calmly slot in, then smashing in a terrific second, before drilling home a third in stoppage time, reports the BBC.
Teenage forward Mason Greenwood scored his first goal in the competition, latching onto Paul Pogba’s defence-splitting pass before drilling a precise, low finish into the far corner.
Greenwood produced another thumping effort straight at Peter Gulasci, while the visiting goalkeeper also kept out Anthony Martial’s poked effort.
But when Martial was tripped in the box with three minutes to go, he converted the penalty in a thumping victory for the Red Devils.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side backed up their excellent win at Paris St-Germain in their opening game by collecting another impressive three points to extend their unbeaten run to four games.
United’s backline had a comfortable night, David de Gea keeping out efforts from Christopher Nkunku and Ibrahima Konate.
In the Group H’s other game, last year’s runners-up Paris St-Germain picked up their first points with a 2-0 win at Istanbul Basaksehir.
And Hakim Ziyech scored his first Chelsea goal as Frank Lampard’s side picked up three points in an emphatic Champions League win in Russia.
Ziyech, 27, swept in on his first start for the club to add to goals from Callum Hudson-Odoi, Timo Werner and Christian Pulisic as Chelsea returned to goalscoring ways in style.
Back-to-back goalless draws had signalled that Lampard had made strides in sorting out his side’s defence, and while they will face tougher opposition than Russian new boys Krasnodar, the manager will be delighted that his attacking riches also kicked into gear after midfielder Jorginho had missed an early penalty.
Four points from two games is a solid start to their Champions League campaign and despite their run of draws Chelsea have now lost just once in 10 games this term.  *Wins for Chelsea, PSG, Barca Marcus Rashford came off the bench to score a clinical hat-trick as Manchester United continued their recent momentum by taking apart RB Leipzig in the Champions League. England international Rashford came on just after the hour mark and netted three goals in 18 minutes, first… October 28, 2020 In "Sports" *Brentford upset West Brom Manchester United progressed to the fourth round of the Carabao Cup with victory at Championship side Luton. Juan Mata opened the scoring from the penalty spot in the first half. United goalkeeper Dean Henderson produced an excellent save late on to deny Tom Lockyer, before substitute… September 22, 2020 In "Sports" *Brentford upset West Brom Manchester United progressed to the fourth round of the Carabao Cup with victory at Championship side Luton. Juan Mata opened the scoring from the penalty spot in the first half. United goalkeeper Dean Henderson produced an excellent save late on to deny Tom Lockyer, before substitute… September 23, 2020 In "Sports"