The Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has described the ongoing protests by Nigerian youths as symptoms of a ticking time bomb and bottled up grievances over the poor governance structure in the country. Kaigama made this known while delivering his homily yesteray at St. Gabriel’s Chaplaincy, Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria, Abuja, on the occasion of the World Mission Sunday titled; ‘Here am I, send me.’ The cleric, who advised the Federal Government not to turn a deaf ear to the yearnings and demands of the protesting youths, noted that poverty and social neglect were worse than the deadly COVID-19 pandemic that had claimed over one million lives globally. While commending the youth for maintaining a peaceful protest, he said according to the first reading taken from the Book of Isaiah, prayers must be offered for priests, religious, catechists or lay missionaries who serve in the missionary fields to give hope to people and urge them not to lift up sword against the nation, or engage in war.  been a strong ...says poverty, social neglect worse than COVID-19   The ArchBishop, Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has  described the ongoing protests by Nigerian youths as symptoms of a ticking time bomb and bottled up grievances over the poor governance structure in the country.   Kaigama… October 18, 2020 In "News" The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has urged Nigerians not to relent in fervent prayers until corruption, the COVID-19 pandemic and other diseases were totally eradicated from the country.   Delivering his Sunday homily at Our Lady Queen of Peace Parish in Utako, Abuja, Kaigama, who advised Nigerians… August 30, 2020 In "Faith" Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has said corruption has assumed a new level of digital proficiency across all levels, despite the high number of worship places and religious activities in the country. In his Homily delivered during the inauguration of Catholic Action in Abuja Archdiocese at Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Pro-Cathedral over… October 4, 2020 In "Faith"