•250 staff now out-of-job Eight days after arsonists and hoodlums attacked Television Continental (TVC) and Max FM Radio Station, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo- Olu, yesterday visited the management and staff of the stations to commiserate with them over the attack which ruined the stations. Property estimated at billions of naira was set ablaze by the arsonists in the wake of the demonstration against the police brutality which was allegedly hijacked by the hoodlums. The governor, who lamented the attack on the world-class TV station, said that the arsonists did not only destroye the station but also left many staff and the management of the station in pain with the destruction of their property and other personal belongings. Following the attack, transmission gadgets, the state-of-the-art studios, production rooms and operational vehicles, all went up in flames by the time the hoodlums left the station’s premises. Sanwo-Olu and his team which included the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Deputy Chief of Staff, Mr. Gboyega Soyannwo and Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso were received by the TVC’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Andrew Hanlon, who led top management staff of the media organisation. Hanlon took the governor round the main auditorium, which was the hub of the TV station’s operation. It was completely razed. The auditorium housed three main studios, three control rooms, three master control rooms and central transmission laboratory said to have been equipped with the modern communication gadgets worth millions of dollars. All left in the building were charred materials. Speaking on the negative impact of the attack on the station, the TV station boss told Sanwo-Olu that more than 250 production staff working in the razed building had been out of job since the incident happened just as over 500 direct employees of the station had been struggling to work in temporary accommodation put up by the company. Hanlon said: “After the rioters invaded our premises and set the place on fire, some buildings in the premises survived. But the main transmission building is completely destroyed and it was the hub of our operations. The rioters cast fear and terror in the hearts of our employees when they broke in last week’s Wednesday morning.  Three stations burnt, looted   Sanwo-Olu imposes 24-hour curfew   L agos metropolis was literally set on fire yesterday when thugs engaged #EndSARS protesters in a free-for-all. This led to imposition of a 24-hour curfew on Lagos State by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The hoodlums set Orile Police Station on fire… October 21, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Lagos yesterday slipped into a state of anomie as the Centre of Excellence literally became a ball of fire. The outbreak of violence, which started on Monday in different parts of the nation, continued yesterday, with more police stations, banks and media houses attacked and razed in Lagos State.  … October 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Television Continental (TVC) is back on air about four days after its headquarters in Lagos was attacked by hoodlums. A mob had attacked the company’s head office at Ketu on Tuesday amid the unrests that trailed the #EndSARS protests. Checks on the station on Saturday, however, showed it is still… October 24, 2020 In "News"