 US President Trump called into talk show Hannity, on Thursday night, to clarify comments he made during Tuesday’s presidential debate concerning white supremacist groups and the Proud Boys. Instead of condemning, the president told the Proud Boys to “stand back and stand by.”
Trump’s failure to condemn white supremacists and violent alt-right groups was the biggest headline from the debate. The next day, when he was asked by the press to explain his comments, he claimed he didn’t know who the Proud Boys were, reports Yahoo News.
Almost 48 hours after he made the initial comments during the debate, Trump called into Hannity to set the record straight. “I have to say,” said Trump, “I’ve said it many times, let me be clear again. I condemn the KKK. I condemn all white supremacists. I condemn the Proud Boys.”
While Trump was willing to condemn the groups, when it came to the Proud Boys, he admitted he didn’t really know what he was condemning.
“I don’t know much about the Proud Boys,” said Trump, “almost nothing, but I condemn that.”  President Donald Trump and his White House challenger Joe Biden have fiercely clashed in the opening moments of their first live TV debate. Trump, a Republican, accused his rival of being beholden to socialists in his party, saying: "They're going to dominate you, Joe, you know that." "I'm the… September 30, 2020 In "Top Stories" President Donald Trump promoted a video on Twitter Sunday morning showing a man in a golf cart with Trump campaign gear shouting "white power." The video, which Trump said was from the Florida retirement community known as The Villages, featured a parade of golf carts, some with pro-Trump signs,… June 28, 2020 In "News" US President Donald Trump has defended supporters of his for their alleged roles in recent deadly street clashes. He suggested a teen accused of killing two in Wisconsin last week and Trump fans involved in clashes in Oregon on Saturday were acting in self-defence, reports the BBC. Trump pointed… September 1, 2020 In "News"