The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has said that it is organising an international virtual conference as part of its efforts to drive public discourse on the impact, risks, challenges and opportunities of financial technology (Fintech).  In a statement, the Corporation said that the two-day conference, which has as its theme: “Financial System Stability, Fintech and Emerging Risks: Challenge for Bank Supervisors,” begins today, Thursday, 22nd of October to Friday, 23rd October, 2020.  According to the statement: “The conference, which is the first of its kind to be hosted by a Deposit Insurance System (DIS) in the African region, is informed by emerging developments and financial system stability effects of Fintech and COVID-19 pandemic.”  The conference, brings together speakers & participants from the International Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI), World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), sister deposit insurers, supervisory & resolution authorities, as well as professionals & practitioners in the financial systems across the globe.  Some of the local participants are drawn from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), FITC, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), amongst others.  The conference is part of effort to promote knowledge and experience sharing amongst key stakeholders on Fintech, as well as provides opportunity to promote broad discussion on policy options to address emerging risks and opportunities associated with Fintech. Specifically, the conference will address pertinent topics such as: “How Big Tech and Asian Banks are Reinventing Banking”; “Emerging Issues on Cyber Risks”; “Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning” and “Consumer Protection in the Fintech era.”   The 9th National Assembly has gone far with the process of repealing BOFI Act 2004 and enacting BOFI Act 2020 with a view to making the banking sector strong, resilient and deterrent to financial crimes and fraud. In all of these, both NDIC and CBN have made quality inputs into… July 23, 2020 In "Business" Over 200 financial technology firms have been operating in Nigeria’s finance space between 2019 and now with combined Investment portfolio in excess of $600 million. ThiswasdisclosedMondayinLagosbyManagingDirectorandChief Executive Officer of the Nigeria DepositInsuranceCommission( NDIC), Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim, while declaring open annual workshop for Finance Correspondents (FICAN). Umaru said Nigeria currently housed… October 20, 2020 In "Business" "Bridge Bank” and other resolution options utilized by the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) in the course of its over 31 years of operation in Nigeria in the resolution of failing or failed insured financial institution has significantly contributed to maintaining public confidence and stability of the banking system with… July 20, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist"