 The website of the Nigeria police force (NPF) is currently offline as protests against the special anti-robbery squad (SARS) continue across the country.
Checks on Saturday revealed that the website, www.npf.gov.ng, was not available.
On the police website was the message: “This Account has been suspended. Contact your hosting provider for more information.”
The development is one in a series of targeted attacks against the website and social media accounts of government-owned institutions.
On Thursday night, the Twitter handle of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) was taken over by the ‘Anonymous’ hackers.
“We #Anonymous have taken over all the NG Official Twitter’s Account to support #ENDPOLICEBRUTALITY. WE’RE TOGETHER WITH NIGERIANS. EXPECT UNEXPECTED,” the group had written on the Twitter handle of the NBC.
As the ‘Anonymous’ hackers continued to tweet in support of the #EndSARS movement through the NBC Twitter account, the website of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was also down for a while on Friday, but was later recovered.
The youth have taken to the streets for more than one week now, calling for reforms within the police force.
Although Mohammed Adamu, Inspector-General of Police, has announced the disbandment of the SARS unit and announced the creation of the Special Weapon and Tactics (SWAT) team as a replacement, the youth have insisted on a total reform of the force, as well as better welfare for the citizens.  The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has confirmed that its Twitter account has been hacked, stating that they are working on the retrieval. This happened barely 48 hours after viral audio released by an ‘anonymous’ supported the #EndSARS protest, thereby giving the government 72 hours or risked hacking. The NBC… October 16, 2020 In "News" A hacktivist group, Anonymous has reportedly hacked database of the Nigerian Police, revealed their details, and issued President Muhammadu Buhari a 72-hour ultimatum to grant the requests of #EndSARS protesters or face consequences. The anonymous group also claimed to have hacked several Government websites as protests against police brutality in… October 17, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Vehicles vandalised, say police Protests spread to other cities Ganduje, Kano youths back reform, SWAT A twist was added to the #EndSARS protests yesterday as those for and those against the demonstrations engaged in a free-for-all at the popular Berger roundabout in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Trouble started… October 15, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"