Wole Shadare  The House of Representatives Committee on Aviation has begun a process of amending the Civil Aviation Act 2006 with a three-day public hearing on the six Executive Bills brought to the National Assembly. The Bills are seeking to amend certain aspects of the Acts establishing the six agencies being superintended by the Ministry of Aviation. The agencies include: Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, (NCAA), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, (NAMA), Nigerian College of Aviation Technology, (NCAT) Zaria, Air Accident Investigation Bureau, (AIB) and the Nigerian Meteorological Agency, (NIMET). The Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, Nnolim Nnaji noted that aviation, as a dynamic industry, requires constant review of their enabling status to ensure that the country keeps to standard. “I understand that the last review was done about 14 years ago (2006)and l can tell you that within this period a lot of changes has happened globally and this must have necessitated the proposed review from the Executive arm,” he said. Nnaji appealed to the critical stakeholders and the members of the public especially the frequent air travellers/ aviation community to make time to either attend or send well-articulated memoranda that will guide the legislators in amending the Acts. Such, according to him would engender robust debate and discussions that will at the end of the day prepare grounds for qualitative amendment Bills that will reposition the country’s air transport sector for a greater future. He also appealed to the media partners to give the process effective coverage to stimulate public interest towards the amendment.    …begs Senate not to cut Ministry's budget   Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, yesterday, told the National Assembly that his Ministry was the worst hit by the impact of the Coronavirus currently ravaging the country and the world.   This was as he pleaded with the apex legislative assembly… August 25, 2020 In "News" LOST HOPE One airline yet to remit N13 billion collected on behalf of one of the agencies     ●Loans may end up as bad debts     H ope seems to be dimming very fast on how the aviation industry could recover over N45 billion from airlines indebted to… July 6, 2020 In "Business" In a bid to enhance air safety in the country’s aviation industry, the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) have entered into partnership. Consequently, the two agencies, yesterday, inaugurated an 11-man committee that would review the NCAA’s response to safety recommendations issued by AIB on… August 20, 2020 In "News"