…promises to compensate for victims  Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, yesterday embarked on a tour of hotspots of #EndSARS protests in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, where he declared that his government would continue to do what was necessary to secure lives and properties of residents of the state.  The governor, who was accompanied by a number of aides, stopped at different spots on the Idi-Ape/ Iwo Road axis, where he spoke to protesters in English and Yoruba languages.  He, however, warned youths to stop fomenting trouble or destroying properties in the name of the #EndSARS protests as he would not want any further loss of life in the state.  Makinde also promised to engage with the Commissioner for Police in the state on how the police would take a backseat pending the time the situation in the country would be put under control.  Makinde first made a stop-over at Testing Ground, Iwo Road, where policemen had been firing warning shots to ward off protesters from early yesterday and engaged with the protesting youths and residents, some of whom claimed to have lost properties to the violence that erupted in the area earlier in the day.  He said: “Let me ask you some questions; are you the ones that installed this government? Are you assured that this government will always do what is right for you? Since you installed this government, I want to assure you that we will do what is necessary for you. I want you to trust me on this.  ...Shuts schools as protest gets violent   Six suspects arrested in connection with the crisis that trailed the protest against police brutality in Ogbomoso two weeks ago have been freed by the court as prayed by Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde. The suspects include: Olaoluwa Busayo, Olagoke David, Olusola Matthew, Amole Adebayo,  Adedokun Segun and Ganiyu Saheed.   Meanwhile, Governor Makinde has directed that "all… October 20, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Makinde sues for peace   Thugs yesterday attacked police stations, brutalised and later burnt alive two policemen at Iwo Road in Ibadan, Oyo State. It took the intervention of Governor Seyi Makinde and his security convoy that prevented the Idi Ape Testing Ground Police Division from being burnt. Several sporadic… October 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Sanwo-Olu raises panel, floats victims' trust fund Nigerians have right to protest -Senate President Protest, lesson for leaders, says Makinde Thousands of demonstrators marched on the streets of major cities in several states of the federation yesterday in continuation of the #EndSARS protests. From Lagos to Port Harcourt in Rivers… October 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"