Nigeria Football Federation may not agree with the directive of the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, to uphold the election of Senator Ifeanyi Ubah as the Anambra FA Chairman.   The Sports Ministry through a letter signed by its Permanent Secretary, Gabriel Aduda asked the NFF to uphold the result of the August 2 Anambra FA election and that all grievances, if any, should be directed to the electoral committee in line with the NFF statutes and extant laws.  According to report, chieftains of the nation’s football umpire and their counterparts in Anambra state have began clandestine moves aimed at disobeying the directives of the sports ministry which earlier on Monday advised the NFF to recognise the result of the August 2 virtual election.  According to a top source at the NFF, the body has concluded that there is no going back on its earlier decision and are bent on disobeying the ministerial order.  The source who spoke on condition of anonymity said some top officials of the NFF discussed the ministry’s letter on phone and resolved among themselves that there is no going back.  Referring to the letter, they were quick to point out a line in the second to last paragraph where the ministry said they were advising the NFF to uphold the result of the August 2 NFF election.  In their words, “it is only an advice and we have the right to take it or refuse as the case may be”.  The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports has declared its support for the reelection of Senator Dr. Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah as the Chairman of Anambra State Football Association. The ministry made this known in a statement titled “Resolution of the Ministerial Meeting on the Anambra State Football Association”. According to… October 20, 2020 In "Sports" On Tuesday September 15, a factional chairman of the Football Federation in Delta State emerged after months of crisis which led to the setting up of a normalization committee by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF).   In an election conducted in Asaba on Tuesday, Ken Nwamucha defeated Michael Anemeka to… September 22, 2020 In "Editorial" The major setback in the development of football in Nigeria has been how the administrators can put round pegs in round holes. Taking the right decisions at the right time is crucial, just as focusing on the right things to be done duly. We are very sure that football has… August 6, 2020 In "Editorial"