 New daily coronavirus infections in Australia’s hotspot of Victoria climbed back to double digits on Sunday with 12 cases recorded but authorities said the state is on track to be able to ease its social distancing restrictions in coming weeks.
The dozen new coronavirus cases follow eight infections reported on Saturday and single-digit numbers for most of the past week.
Melbourne, Victoria’s capital, has been under a strict lockdown for nearly three months. Retail and restaurants operate only on take away or delivery orders only, while people can exercise or socialise outdoors for a maximum of two hours a day and must wear masks in public places, reports Reuters.
Most restrictions will be eased when the average number of new daily cases over a two-week window falls below five. The 14-day rolling case average for Melbourne has been going steadily down and it is now at 11.9.
“We are so, so close,” Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews told a televised briefing.
“If we continue these numbers, continue this trend, we are ready to take that step. All things being equal, that will be just a couple of weeks.”
With temperatures reaching 28 Celsius (82.4 Fahrenheit) over the weekend, the highest in months, police said they were stepping up patrolling as hundreds of Melbourne residents flocked to beaches..
Victoria, Australia’s second-most populous state, accounts for 90% of national COVID-19 deaths. Australia, with 894 fatalities, has fared far better than many other developed countries.
Australia has had just over 27,000 infections, according to health ministry data.  Australia's coronavirus hotspot Victoria recorded a single digit rise in new cases for the first time in three months on Monday and lifted some of the state's tough restrictions, as it aims for near-normal conditions by Christmas. Australia's second-most populous state reported just five new cases and three deaths… September 28, 2020 In "News" Police in Australia's coronavirus hotspot state of Victoria stepped up patrolling on Saturday as hundreds of people in the city of Melbourne breached stringent lockdown restrictions and flocked to beaches on the warmest weekend in months. Under the restrictions, nearly five million people in Melbourne, Victoria's capital, may exercise… October 3, 2020 In "News" The Australian state of Victoria will reimpose tighter coronavirus restrictions after a spike in cases. From Monday, there will be a stricter limit on the number of people allowed to meet up in public or visit another person's home after 25 new cases of COVID-19were reported overnight -… June 20, 2020 In "News"