  Fujifilm Holdings Corp (4901.T) said on Thursday that it had signed a manufacturing contract agreement with U.S.-based firm VLP Therapeutics for a COVID-19 vaccine formulation.
Japan’s Fujifilm will use its manufacturing facilities and infrastructure to handle development of the vaccine for clinical trials, the two companies said in a statement.
VLP’s RNA-based vaccine candidate was selected for funding by the Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development, reports Reuters.
The biotech firm has a Japanese subsidiary which is involved in drug research with government bodies and universities.
Fujifilm has been increasingly shifting into healthcare over the past decade from its traditional photography and office solutions businesses.
Last month, it concluded a successful Phase-3 clinical trial of its Avigan drug for use in COVID-19 patients.
A Fujifilm unit is also involved in making ingredients for Novavax Inc’s (NVAX.O) coronavirus vaccine candidate.  With the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s recent release of guidelines on its Healthcare Sector Research and Development Intervention Scheme (HSRDIS), the Federal Government can now claim that Nigeria is among nations that are taking steps to develop a vaccine and drugs against the COVID-19, writes Tony Chukwunyem  … August 12, 2020 In "Business" Philippine scientists were set on Wednesday to meet representatives of the Russian state research facility that developed a coronavirus vaccine, to discuss participation in clinical trials and access to its research data. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has lauded the Russian vaccine and offered to be "injected in public", to… August 12, 2020 In "Health" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), yesterday, released guidelines on its Healthcare Sector Research and Development Intervention Scheme (HSRDIS). According to the apex bank, the scheme, which is part of its policy response to the COVID-19, is aimed at helping to strengthen the public healthcare system with innovative financing of… August 5, 2020 In "Business"