  The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has postponed the release of results for the 2020 West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE).
In a statement on its Twitter page on Wednesday, the examination body said the move was due to the curfew introduced in some states recently amid the unrests trailing the #EndSARS protest.
WAEC had on September 14 disclosed that it would release candidates’ results in the next 45 days.
But in the post, the body said the results will now be released next week, adding that the specific date would be announced soon.
“WASSCE SC 2020 Results Release Date: Dear candidates, the Council had planned to release the results today in fulfillment of our Project 45 but due to the curfew imposed last week, it had to be postponed till next week. The exact date will be made known soon,” it wrote.
The exam body also enjoined the public to disregard rumours making the rounds in some quarters that the results had been released.
The development is coming days after the National Examinations Council (NECO) also postponed its Senior Secondary Certificate Examinations (SSCE) indefinitely, citing the situation of things in the country.
Several states across the country had imposed curfews of different durations to contain the crisis that broke out in the aftermath of the #EndSARS protest.
The protest, aimed at tackling police brutality in the country, had become violent after it was hijacked by hoodlums.  It is a notorious fact that the Nigeria’s Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, had said that Nigeria will not participate in this year’s edition of the yearly West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). Adamu said apart from the fact that the yearly WASSCE may not hold this year,… July 16, 2020 In "Opinion" As WASSCE commences August 17   The Federal Government has given the nod to students in graduating classes in secondary schools throughout the country to resume academic activities from August 4.   In the same vein, the West African Senior Secondary Schools Examination (WASSCE) conducted by the West African Examinations… July 28, 2020 In "News" Barely 24hours after it announced a date for the 2020 West African Senior School Certificate Examination, the West African Examination Council(WAEC) yesterday announced guidelines for the conduct of the examination amid coronavirus pandemic. The conduct of the examination for candidates, which had earlier been scheduled to hold between April 6… July 8, 2020 In "News"