 Twenty-four hours after it was reported that the residents of Old Ojo Road and Kirikiri Town in Mazamaza area of Oriade Local Council Development Area, LCDA, broke into a warehouse and stole various food items meant for COVID-19 palliatives, yet to be identified hoodlums have reportedly stormed another Lagos State Food Warehouse at Agric Bus Stop, in Ojo, along Lagos Badagry Expressway area and emptied the place Friday morning.
It would be recalled that raw food item comprising beans, noodles, sugar, salt, garri, rice, pastas among others, that were allegedly meant to be distributed to the masses during the heat of COVID-19 pandemic were among the food items carted away by hoodlums at Mazamaza.
But the state government had explained that the items found in the warehouse was a private initiative and were only handed over to the state government on September 22.
According to LASG, government was still taking an inventory of the items before distribution to the populace when the #EndSARS protests halted the programme.
As at the time of filling this report, news is still sketchy whether security personnel have been deployed in the area.  Lagos State government has condemned the vandalization of the warehouse at Mazamaza housing the food palliative packages donated to the state government by the Private Sector Coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID) group.   The state Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu had on September 22 formally taken receipt of the food palliatives from… October 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...residents blame govt for prolonged curfew   In what could be described as a wellplanned and calculated looting, residents of Agric Bus Stop along Lagos- Badagry Expressway, yesterday broke into a warehouse and carted away all the foods package stored in the warehouse. Yesterday's looting was coming 24 hours after… October 24, 2020 In "News" Houses, shops, fuel station torched in Lagos ethnic clash   Govt kicks as residents steal palliatives from warehouse   Sanwo-Olu frustrated over failure to reach Buhari   Violent protests continued yesterday in Lagos, the Centre of Excellence as demonstrators attacked public facilities. Thugs attacked Ikoyi Correctional Centre.   But an… October 23, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"