 Dele Alli looks set to remain at Tottenham this season after the club rejected a £1.5m loan bid for the England midfielder from Paris Saint-Germain, while Benfica striker Carlos Vinícius is set to join Spurs after the Portuguese club announced that a €3m loan fee had been agreed with a €45m option-to-buy clause.
Alli was offered to the French champions last month and has not featured in the Premier League for Spurs since being substituted at half-time against Everton on the opening day. The 24-year-old has made one appearance since, in the Europa League qualifying win over Shkendija in North Macedonia last week.
It is understood Tottenham immediately rejected PSG’s offer, with Alli set to remain and fight for his place in Mourinho’s squad. The Spurs manager would not be drawn on Wednesday over whether Alli could be handed an opportunity in Thursday night’s Europa play-off against Maccabi Haifa, although he did praise the player’s reaction to being largely on the sidelines, reports The Guardian.
“I cannot confirm Dele’s playing tomorrow but I cannot confirm he’s not playing,” Mourinho said. “We have still training sessions today, we have still decisions to make. The only thing I can say is he’s being very, very professional. I have only respect for him.”
Tottenham are on the verge of bringing Benfica striker Vinícius to the club on loan. The 25-year-old Brazilian is represented by Jorge Mendes’s company, Gestifute.
Mourinho is also represented by Mendes. A loan deal with a €45m option to buy has been agreed between the two clubs.
When asked last night whether a deal was close, Mourinho said: “No, I want you to ask me that question when it’s confirmed. Nobody told me it’s done so I’m going to respect the player, respect Benfica and wait a little bit more.”  Tottenham head coach Jose Mourinho has told Sky Sports News he is "convinced" Dele Alli will not leave the club in this transfer window. The 24-year-old's future at Spurs is uncertain after he was left out of their last two matchday squads against Southampton and Lokomotiv Plovdiv. A number of clubs, including… September 23, 2020 In "Sports" *Vardy scores two penalties to help Foxes sink Baggies Dominic Calvert-Lewin's brilliant header ensured new-look Everton made a flying start to the Premier League season with victory at Tottenham. Calvert-Lewin gave Hugo Lloris no chance after connecting with Lucas Digne's in-swinging free-kick to earn the Toffees a first win over… September 13, 2020 In "Sports" José Mourinho has said his Tottenham squad is overstocked and that he has “too many players” to manage comfortably as he prepares to bring in Gareth Bale and Sergio Reguilón from Real Madrid. Spurs squeezed past a nine-man Lokomotiv Plovdiv in the Europa League second qualifying round on Thursday and Mourinho left eight… September 18, 2020 In "Sports"