 Paul Pogba has said he would love to play for Real Madrid one day but his focus is on helping Manchester United improve on their poor start to the Premier League season.
The 27-year-old admitted in 2019 that he wanted to leave United but no major offers came in for him and he spent most of last season sidelined with injuries, reports Reuters.
“Many things have been said,” Pogba told a news conference on Thursday at France’s training camp, the day after their 7-1 friendly win over Ukraine. “Of course, every footballer would love to play for Real Madrid and would dream about that. It’s a dream of mine, so why not one day?”
“But I’m at Manchester United and I love my club. I play for Manchester United, I want to perform well for them and do everything to get them back to where they deserve to be.”
Pogba has performed poorly since returning to training after testing positive for coronavirus and he gave away a penalty in his side’s humiliating 6-1 home defeat by Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday.
The defeat, United’s joint-worst in the Premier League, increased the gloom for the 20-times English champions after they lost their opening game 3-1 at home to Crystal Palace before scraping a 3-2 win at Brighton & Hove Albion.
“Every player goes through difficult periods but you have to be strong mentally and we all need to try and get the team back to where it belongs,” Pogba said. “It belongs at the top, fighting for trophies, that’s the club’s ambition. We know it’s not easy, but that remains our objective. We are fighting for that.”
Pogba, who joined United from Juventus in 2016 for a then world-record fee of £89m is out of contract in June, though there is the option to extend for a further year.  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is hopeful Paul Pogba will sign a new Manchester United contract and play an important role in the club's future success. Pogba has long been linked with a move to Real Madrid or former side Juventus, and even admitted himself last year that he was looking for… July 9, 2020 In "Sports" Paul Pogba is close to agreeing a new five-year Manchester United deal. SunSport understands the Red Devils are confident of announcing the news at the end of the season. The Frenchman, 27, has had a change of heart since expressing his desire to leave the club this time last season.… July 16, 2020 In "Sports" Paul Pogba’s future at Manchester United this summer remains in doubt. The midfielder has intimated a willingness to stay with United and sign a new contract. But Bleacher Report says Real Madrid and former club Juventus are convinced Pogba can still be tempted away from United this smmer. Real… July 31, 2020 In "Sports"