 The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has sacked Illiya Ibrahim, corps assistant, who was seen partaking in the looting of a warehouse in the federal capital territory (FCT).
On Monday, a mob attacked a warehouse at Gwagwalada area council of Abuja, carting away food items. The warehouse is said to be owned by the agricultural and rural development secretariat of the FCT administration.
Bags of grains, including rice and cartons of noodles and spaghetti, were looted from the facility.
However, Ibrahim was seen helping himself with a carton and three bags of rice.
In a statement on Tuesday, Ekunola Gbenga, NSCDC spokesman, said Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu, Commandant-General, approved the recommendation of a disciplinary committee for the dismissal of the officer.
Gbenga said the officer was charged under the public service rule which is related to “unbecoming conduct of officers”.
“This disciplinary measure was taken after a series of investigations and deliberations by the junior disciplinary committee and recommendations were made to the management,” he said.
“The CG appreciates officers and men of the corps including members of the public for providing useful information that has continued to assist the corps in identifying unfit individuals within the ranks for appropriate action.
“He tasked the personnel to remain committed, resolute and firm in the discharge of their duties.”  Three women were trampled to death when hoodlums looted the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) palliative warehouse located in Gwagwalada. Witnesses said the personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Nigeria Police and the Brigade of Guards of the Nigerian Army, who arrived at the venue early,… October 27, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" A mob has broken into another warehouse in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) carting away supplies said to be COVID-19 palliatives. The crowd invaded the warehouse located in Gwagwalada area council at about 9am on Monday. It is said to be owned by the FCT administration under the Agricultural… October 26, 2020 In "Top Stories" There has been widespread looting of warehouses used to temporarily store the palliative items for distribution to the poor and vulnerable as part of measures to reduce the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic. This is one of the fallouts of the outbreak of violence during the #EndSARS protests. These incidents,… October 31, 2020 In "Investigation"