Police in Ogun State have arrested 23 members of the ‘End SARS’ protesters who disrupted the Owu Day Festival attended by former President Olusegun Obasanjo and other prominent Nigerians on Saturday.  Also, police denied killing two ‘End SARS protesters in Edo State. The protesters in Ogun State gathered in their hundreds as early as 7am at Panseke area of Abeokuta metropolis on Saturday in continuation of their protest against the activities of the operatives of the Special Anti- Robbery Squad (SARS).  They stormed the venue of the annual festival, barricaded the entrance and demanded an audience with the former President.  But violence broke out when security agents, comprising the police and men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) shot sporadically into the air to disperse the protesters. The protesters damaged the windshield of the official car of the deputy governor, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Abimbola Oyeyemi said in a statement in Abeokuta yesterday that the protesters also stormed SARS office at Magbon “where they fired some gunshots at the men and injured one Sergeant Akabudike Augustine.”  The PRO added that operatives of SARS dispersed the protesters and arrested 23 among them.   Angry youths protesting against the activities of the operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and other Tactical Units of the Nigeria Police Saturday disrupted the celebration of Owu Day Festival in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The youths stormed the venue of the annual festival, which had former President… October 10, 2020 In "News" •Disrupt Obasanjo's Owu Day festival •Oyetola, NANS appeal for caution A bystander was shot and killed in Ogbomoso in Oyo State, southwest Nigeria, on Saturday by the policemen dispersing #EndSARS protesters. It was unclear if Jimoh Isiaq was among the young Nigerians protesting against police brutality before he was shot.… October 11, 2020 In "News" Steve Uzoechi OWERRI Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has described the deteriorating situation of Nigeria as irredeemable, adding the widespread #EndSARS protests across the country as an awakening for all Nigerians. The separatist group in a statement signed by its national leader, Comrade Uchenna… October 18, 2020 In "News"