 Canadian-Nigerian actor, screenwriter, film producer and director, Pascal Atuma, has encouraged Nigerian youths who are presently at the front line of the ongoing #ENDSARS protest not to relent in their struggle, describing it as timely.
In a video message released Monday from his base in the North American country, Atuma, who also is the CEO/Chairman TABIC Record Label, commended Nigerians for speaking with one voice about the excesses of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigerian Police.
He described the moves as positive steps Nigeria needed to change some of the challenges slowing down the progress and development of the country.
Atuma also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for acceding to the call for disbandment of the special unit, while calling on him to use this opportunity to write his name in good by leaving a legacy that many generations will be proud of.
In his words: “Use this feat as a starting point for leaving a legacy do that many years down the road, people will say he was the one who ended SARS; he was the one who ended lack of electricity; that he was the one who built roads, airports; the one who started paying teachers well; he was the one who started listening to the masses, and stamping out electoral malpractices.”
Atuma also thanked all the celebrities who spoke out against the SARS wanton behaviours, especially those of them who physically took to the streets to protest against the actions of the police unit, adding that he would have joined the protest if he had been in the country.  A Nigerian arts and entertainment executive based in Canada, Pascal Atuma has advised the National Assembly to consider passing a bill that would execute any public officer who loots public finds by firing squad. Atuma, who is also the CEO Tabic Records limited, VP Tabic Inc Nigeria and Tabic Inc… July 25, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" •Disrupt Obasanjo's Owu Day festival •Oyetola, NANS appeal for caution A bystander was shot and killed in Ogbomoso in Oyo State, southwest Nigeria, on Saturday by the policemen dispersing #EndSARS protesters. It was unclear if Jimoh Isiaq was among the young Nigerians protesting against police brutality before he was shot.… October 11, 2020 In "News" Abuja based cleric and General Overseer of Shiloh Word Chapel, Prophet I. O. Samuel has lend his voice to the ongoing #endsars and #endpolicebrutality protests presently embarked upon by Nigerian youths. The Prophet shed tears while praying on the Mountain for God to intervene in the current crisis presently… October 12, 2020 In "News"