 Peru’s Raul Ruidiaz and Alex Valera have tested positive for COVID-19 and will miss Tuesday’s 2022 World Cup qualifier at home to Brazil, the Peruvian Football Federation (FPF) said.
The players did not take part in Monday’s final training session at Lima’s National stadium, where the game against the five-times world champions will be played, reports Reuters.
“The players have not developed serious symptoms, to the relief of everyone,” the FPF said in a statement on Monday, adding that they had been isolated from the rest of the squad.
The game is one of five qualifiers taking place on Tuesday in South American qualifying for the World Cup finals in Qatar.
Peru drew their opening game 2-2 with Paraguay last week, while Brazil hammered Bolivia 5-0.
The decision by the South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL) to go ahead with the qualifying rounds has been viewed as controversial as more than half of all COVID-19 deaths recorded globally have come in the Americas.
Qualifiers in other confederations were postponed until next year.  Super Eagles’ coach, Gernot Rohr has admitted that he is worried about the form of his players, after the ongoing war against coronavirus scuttled his plans to line the Nigerian national team out for two international friendlies next month. Although Rohr expressed happiness that two young players from Arsenal of… August 21, 2020 In "Sports" …as FIFA releases fixtures schedule for Mundial The 2022 World Cup will be held in Qatar from 21 November to 18 December, world football governing body FIFA announced on Wednesday. The 2022 edition will be held in November and December, as against the normal June and July, in order to… July 16, 2020 In "Sports" About a week ago, the fixtures for the 2020/2021 English Premier League (EPL) were released by the organisers of the domestic league in England.   This came only two weeks after the matches of the last season were concluded. This, we believe, is a big statement on how the game… August 25, 2020 In "Editorial"