Scores of passengers were stranded at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, as some domestic airlines counters were shut. The airlines counters were closed by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN over unpaid debts. Apart from the counters that were closed, no passenger of the affected airlines was allowed access into the boarding areas. Spokeswoman for FAAN, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, who confirmed the development, said the agency was on a revenue drive at the Abuja airport. Some of the passengers, who spoke on the development, said the only information given was that FAAN closed their counter. One of the passengers heading to Maiduguri said they were tired of waiting without knowing whether they were still going to travel or not. Other passengers heading to different parts of the country, like Lagos, Kano, Port Harcourt and elsewhere also suffered the same fate. According to investigation, same exercise is expected to take place at other airports in the coming days. Some of the airlines, before the COVID-19 outbreak, owed FAAN millions of naira and since resumption of flights, the debts have continued to mount. A stakeholder in the industry says desperate time calls for desperate measures and that the action taken by FAAN was a strategy to recover their money for services rendered as the agency also needed to stay afloat in the business.   LOST HOPE One airline yet to remit N13 billion collected on behalf of one of the agencies     ●Loans may end up as bad debts     H ope seems to be dimming very fast on how the aviation industry could recover over N45 billion from airlines indebted to… July 6, 2020 In "Business" ORDERLINESS Ninety per cent of the agency’s workforce have been trained by World Health Organisation   T he Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) says it has concluded plans to  restrict multiple departures of airlines from the same terminals at the same time when flights resume.       The… June 30, 2020 In "Business" After over five month hiatus, the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos came alive on Saturday as two airlines, Middle East Airlines and British Airways recommenced flights into Nigeria’s commercial nerve centre.   The country’s airspace was closed to international flight operations on March 23, 2020 following the outbreak of the… September 6, 2020 In "News"