Extreme poverty is set to rise this year for the first time in more than two decades, with coronavirus expected to push up to 115 million people into that category, the World Bank has said. The bank said in its biennial, “Poverty and Shared Prosperity Report,” that the pandemic is compounding the forces of conflict and climate change, which were already slowing poverty reduction, adding that this could rise to as many as 150 million by 2021. Extreme poverty is defined as living on less than $1.9 a day. The projected increase would be the first since 1998, when the Asian financial crisis shook the global economy. Before the pandemic struck, the extreme poverty rate was expected to drop to 7.9% in 2020. But now it is likely to affect between 9.1% and 9.4% of the world’s population this year, the report said. At the other end of the scale, billionaires have seen their fortunes hit record highs during the pandemic, with top executives from technology and industry earning the most. Since 2013, the World Bank has been working towards the target of having no more than 3% of the world’s population living on just $1.90 a day by 2030. However, it now says that goal will be beyond reach without “swift, significant and substantial policy action.” The World Bank report found that many of the new poor would be in countries that already have high poverty rates, with 82% of the total expected in what are classed as middle-income countries. The bank said progress in reducing global poverty was already slowing even before the COVID-19 crisis. Between 2015 and 2017, 52 million people rose out of poverty, but the rate of reduction over that period was less than half a percentage point a year. This was less rapid than in the years between 1990 and 2015, when global poverty had dropped at the rate of about one percentage point a year. “The pandemic and global recession may cause over 1.4% of the world’s population to fall into extreme poverty,” said World Bank Group President, David Malpass. He said that to reverse this “serious setback”, countries would need to prepare for a different economy post-COVID-19, by allowing capital, labour, skills and innovation to move into new businesses and sectors. However, he pledged that World Bank support would be available to developing countries, “as they work toward a sustainable and inclusive recovery”. “In order to reverse this serious setback to development progress and poverty reduction, countries will need to prepare for a different economy post-COVID- 19, by allowing capital, labour, skills, and innovation to move into new businesses and sectors. “World Bank Group support – across IBRD, BRD, IDA, IFC and MIGA – will help developing countries resume growth and respond to the health, social, and economic impacts of COVID-19 as they work toward a sustainable and inclusive recovery,” he said.  N igeria’s coronavirus outbreak may push over 5 million people into poverty as it triggers the worst recession in the African powerhouse since the 1980s, the World Bank said on Thursday.     The twin shock of the pandemic and a global oil price crash has pummelled Nigeria,… June 28, 2020 In "Business" Pact’ll lift 30m people out of poverty   The African Continental Free Trade Area (Af- CFTA) deal, if fully implemented, could boost incomes across the continent, by $450 billion and lift 30 million people out of extreme poverty by 2035, according to a new World Bank report. While the trade… July 28, 2020 In "Business" ...says 30m jobs may be lost The Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic could push as many as 49.2million more people on the African continent into extreme poverty in 2021 and as many as 30 million jobs may be lost to the crisis, the African Development Bank (AfDB) has said. The bank made… July 8, 2020 In "Business"