…says economy too fragile to bear another lockdown President Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to Nigerians to desist from actions and comments that could jeopardise the unity and progress of the nation. The President made this appeal yesterday at the Presidential Villa while launching the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day (AFRD) Emblem and Appeal Fund with the sum of N10 million. According to the presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, the President said this year’s occasion reminds Nigerians of the need to guard jealously the unity of the nation which was won at great cost. While honouring the memory of the nation’s fallen heroes, veterans and recounting their sacrifices during the First and Second World Wars, the Nigerian Civil War and Peace Support Operations around the world, the President stressed that Nigeria’s strength lies in her diversity. He also paid tribute to men and women currently engaged in internal security operations, particularly the ongoing fight against insurgency, terrorism and banditry in some parts of the country, praising them for remaining steadfast in the difficult task of restoring peace and security despite the coronavirus pandemic. “We honour the memory of our gallant officers and men who have paid the supreme sacrifice in order to keep the country united as one entity. “The nation remains grateful for the efforts and sacrifice of the Armed Forces, especially in the fight against insurgency and other internal security challenges confronting Nigeria,” he said. Buhari recounted that even though the Armed Forces Remembrance Day or Veterans’ Day observed in commemoration of the end of the World War II is being observed on the 11th of November annually, Nigeria chose to celebrate hers on January 15th to coincide with the commemoration of the civil war. Commenting on pervading insecurity in the North- West and North-Central zones in the country, Buhari expressed delight at the return of normalcy in some of the areas that previously witnessed security challenges. The President noted that the country has witnessed security challenges since her independence which have undermined her in the areas of trade, investment and economy, education, health as well as agriculture and has frequently denied Nigerians the freedom of movement. He commended the military for successfully launching operations that have led to the return of normalcy in some of the affected areas, adding that all hands must be on deck to check attacks on soft targets. The President, who restated that his administration will continue to forge useful alliances with neighbours and friends in the international community for the total defeat of the security threats affecting the sub-region, promised to ensure timely provision of adequate resources and necessary logistics support for the Armed Forces. Buhari further pledged that under his watch, the Nigeria Armed Forces will operate with the best modern warfare equipment, with welfare issues receiving utmost attention. ”We are quite aware that it is our responsibility to provide a conducive environment that is devoid of security threats. ”I want to re-assure Nigerians that security, being one of the pillars of this administration, will continue to be at the forefront until peace and security are restored in the country,” he said The President also used the occasion to reassure Nigerians of his administration’s commitment to creating an environment in which all citizens and foreigners are guaranteed freedom and returns on investments. He, therefore, urged business enterprises to render discounts and rebates to men and women in uniform as a symbol of appreciation for their sacrifices, saying “this kind gesture will make life easier for them and deepen their patriotism.” On support for families of members of the Armed Forces who died in active service, the President acknowledged that the unfortunate cost of the fight against insurgency and other internal security challenges was the unavoidable loss of lives of some gallant compatriots. ”The reality is that the spouses and defendants of these breadwinners, in most cases, experience trauma and deprivation. However, we can be of support to them to lighten their burdens especially in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. ”I, therefore, call on all to spare a thought for them and take positive steps to come to their aid,” he said, commending charity organisations engaged in the noble cause of bringing succour to the families of fallen heroes and veterans. Speaking as the Grand Patron of the Nigerian Legion, the President expressed delight that the Legion has continued to be a rallying point of veterans, doing a lot in catering for the welfare of ailing members. ”To ensure that our veterans continue to share the comradeship that existed while in Service and that their welfare is adequately catered for, the Federal Government established the Nigerian Legion as well as fully paid all pension arrears of veterans,” he said. He urged governors who are patrons of Legions in their respective states, as well as Nigerians, to continue to support and participate in the Legion’s initiatives in the areas of transportation, agriculture and housing development. The President called on Nigerians and other residents in the country to procure and wear the emblems with pride in order to identify with those who laid down their lives for the peace and security of the county. In his welcome address, the Minister of Defence, Maj-Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd), called on members of the civil society, religious and political leaders, the academia as well as the media to educate and enlighten Nigerians on the need to recognize and appreciate the sacrifices of gallant compatriots in uniform. In his remarks, the Chairman, Nigerian Legion, Brig-Gen. Adakole Jones Akpa (Rtd), thanked President Buahri for his unrelenting support to the ex-servicemen, particularly in ensuring the prompt payment of pensions. Akpa also recognized the presence and support of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, members of the Diplomatic Corps and the Service Chiefs, to the Nigerian Legion. 