  The Chinese city of Qingdao is testing its entire population of nine million people for Covid-19 over a period of five days.
It comes after a dozen cases were confirmed linked to a local hospital which treats imported patients, reports Sky News.
China had in May tested the entire city of Wuhan – a population of 11 million and the epicentre of the global outbreak.
The country has largely brought the virus under control.
That’s in stark contrast to other parts of the world where there are still high case numbers and lockdown restrictions of varying severity.
In a statement posted to Chinese social media site Weibo, Qingdao’s Municipal’s Health Commission said six new cases and six asymptomatic cases had been discovered.
All the cases were linked to the same hospital, said the Global Times.
The Chinese authorities now have a strategy of mass testing even when a new coronavirus cluster appears to be relatively minor, correspondents said.
City-wide testing
The commission added that a citywide testing program had been launched, with five districts to be tested within three days – with the whole city to be tested within five days.
Some 114,862 people – including medical staff and newly hospitalised patients in the city’s hospitals – have already tested negative for the coronavirus, it said.
Videos circulating online showed local residents lining up late on Sunday to get tested, said the Global Times, adding that some of these test points were open from 07:00 to 23:00.
The new cases come a week after China’s Golden Week holiday – which saw millions travel across the country.
A Global Times report quoting the Qingdao Municipal Bureau of Culture and Tourism said the city received 4.47 million passenger trips over this period.
The nearby city of Jinan, which is also in the same province as Qingdao, called for anyone who has visited the city since 23 September to get tested for the virus, according to a report by The Paper.
Earlier last month, Qingdao announced that two port workers in the city who handled imported seafood tested positive for the virus. However, they were not known to have infected anyone else.
Daily coronavirus infections have fallen drastically in China, and for the most part the country appears to have recovered from the worst of the virus.
China currently has 85,578 virus cases and the death toll stands at 4,634.
Earlier this year, China completed a mass testing programme in Wuhan saying 11 million people had been tested in 10 days.
However, the BBC’s Reality Check later estimated that the figure was closer to 9 million over 10 days – still a significant number of people.
Hundreds of testing centres were opened, with thousands of testing staff involved.  Hong Kong has banned gatherings of more than two people as countries across the world try to control new coronavirus outbreaks. The Chinese territory has also banned restaurant dining and introduced rules making it mandatory to wear masks in public places after a spike in locally-transmitted coronavirus cases over the past three… July 27, 2020 In "News" Benue State would soon get a COVID-19 mobile testing centre as a drastic way of expanding the net for detection of cases of the pandemic in the state. This was just as five medical doctors, two drivers and a health worker had so far tested positive for the disease in… June 25, 2020 In "News" ...40m women at risk of cervical cancer   As Nigeria continues to grapple with increasing cases of COVID- 19 infections in the country, the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has said the pandemic distorted all plans and strategies already on course and laid out to be implemented in the… June 27, 2020 In "News"