 Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin  Following a late Sunday night Security Council meeting with heads of the security agencies in Kwara State, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has announced that the 24-hour curfew imposed on Ilorin, the state capital, has been reviewed to between 6p.m. and 8 a.m. daily until further notice.
This means members of the public can move around between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. daily within the metropolis, according to a statement by Rafiu Ajakaye, the Governor’s Chief Press Secretary.
The statement reads: “A review of the situation in the Ilorin metropolis suggested a relative calm. The meeting observed that the objective of the curfew has largely been achieved as the misguided elements who looted and vandalised public and private properties have been pushed back and normalcy restored.
“Consequently, the Security council resolved to relax the curfew from 24 hours to between 6p.m. and 8 a.m. daily until further notice. This means members of the public can move around between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. daily within the metropolis.
“Even so, the government will continue to review the situation and take decisions that are in the best interest of the state.”   Organisers of the Ogunjobi Gold Cup have informed that it’s pre-season tourney billed to host from October 29th to November 7th at the Kwara State Sports Complex in Ilorin has been postponed to a further date.   The development was as a result of the Kwara State Government’s declaration of… October 25, 2020 In "Sports" Adewale Momoh and Emmanuel Ifeanyi     Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has lifted the 24 – hour indefinite curfew he imposed on the state, following the return of peace to Akure, the state capital.   Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said on Friday… October 25, 2020 In "News" *Exempts essential workers Stephen Olufemi Oni, Ilorin Following unprecedented acts of brigandage, arson and looting of public and private properties by hoodlums on Friday in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has declared a 24-hour curfew in the capital city with effect from midnight Friday, October 23. Addressing… October 24, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"