Thugs yesterday torched the Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akure, Ondo State during the End SARS protest. This happened despite the 24- hour curfew imposed on Ondo State by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu.  The protest, which has been peaceful in the state since it commenced a few days ago, took a violent turn yesterday. With total disregard to the curfew, protesters barricaded most roads in Akure and made bun fire across major junctions. The situation heightened when about four of the youth were shot between Ilesha ‘Garage’ axis and Cathedral Junction in Akure. But no death was recorded.  Following the gunshots, which the protesting youths said were fired by policemen, the protesters moved to the Secretariat of the APC and set fire to it. The spokesman for the Ondo APC, Alex Kalejaiye, who confirmed the attack on the phone, said the protest was no longer the demand to end the Special Anti- Robbery Squad (SARS). Kalejaiye said it was being orchestrated by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  Also, in Ondo town, the headquarters of Ondo West Local Gov- ernment, five people were reportedly shot following attempts to raze a police command situated at Yaba area of the town. The hoodlums later mobilised to a bank in the town and burnt two cars on the bank premises.  Despite the curfew imposed on Ondo State by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, the Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akure, the state capital, was on Wednesday torched by hoodlums during the #EndSARS protests in the state The protests, which has been peaceful in the state since its commencement few… October 21, 2020 In "News" In the aftermath of the #EndSARS protests that left tales of sorrow, tears and blood in many parts of the country, ADEWALE MOMOH writes on how Ondo State was tensend up following moments of lawlessness which resonated in Ondo South and Central Senatorial districts of the state Just as witnessed… November 25, 2020 In "City Life" Sanwo-Olu raises panel, floats victims' trust fund Nigerians have right to protest -Senate President Protest, lesson for leaders, says Makinde Thousands of demonstrators marched on the streets of major cities in several states of the federation yesterday in continuation of the #EndSARS protests. From Lagos to Port Harcourt in Rivers… October 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"