Manchester United and Chelsea ground out a drab goalless draw in the Old Trafford rain that will convince no-one either side will be challenging for the Premier League this season.  Chelsea will probably be happier with a point and might have had more if United skipper Harry Maguire had been punished for wrapping his arm around the throat of Cesar Azpilicueta as he defended a first-half corner, reports the BBC.  Although they remain stuck in the bottom half of the table, United were at least able to avoid losing a third straight home league game at the start of the season for the first time since 1930. In addition, they can also point to three good saves from Edouard Mendy, two to deny Marcus Rashford, including one in the final minute, and one where Bruno Fernandes was thwarted.  However, Chelsea’s biggest scare was Mendy passing the ball across his goal and out for a corner in the first half when trying to pass to Thiago Silva. Neither Edinson Cavani, on his debut, nor Paul Pogba could change things in the home side’s favour after they were introduced as substitutes.  Mason Greenwood was given the final eight minutes to make an impression – but did not. Earlier, Wilfried Zaha “deserves all the praise he is going to get”, said Crystal Palace boss Roy Hodgson after the winger scored and made another goal to inspire a victory and inflict more misery on bottom side Fulham. Palace were on the back foot for much of the encounter, with the hosts having almost 70% possession, but netted twice on the counter-attack. Zaha’s thumping strike was saved by Alphonse Areola but in the next move the Ivorian slipped a sublime reverse ball through to Jairo Riedewald to slot in the opener.  In the first match of the day, Michail Antonio scored a wonderful goal to earn his side a hard-earned point against Manchester City, who have now won once in four Premier League games. Antonio’s spectacular acrobatic overhead volley from Vladimir Coufal’s cross put the Hammers ahead at London Stadium – and provided another twist in this unpredictable top-flight season.  Manchester United and Chelsea ground out a drab goalless draw in the Old Trafford rain that will convince no-one either side will be challenging for the Premier League this season.     Chelsea will probably be happier with a point and might have had more if United skipper Harry Maguire… October 24, 2020 In "Sports" Wins for Everton, Chelsea   Leeds' record signing Rodrigo took advantage of an Ederson error to earn Leeds a draw and prompt more questions for struggling Manchester City. City dominated initially, with Kevin de Bruyne's free-kick striking the post before Raheem Sterling hit the opener. Leeds came back into it… October 3, 2020 In "Sports" Chelsea have signed goalkeeper Edouard Mendy from Rennes for £22m on a five-year deal. The 28-year-old becomes Chelsea's  seventh first-team signing of the summer following the arrivals of Hakim Ziyech, Timo Werner, Ben Chilwell, Thiago Silva, Malang Sarr and Kai Havertz. Mendy will compete with Kepa Arrizabalaga and Willy Caballero… September 24, 2020 In "Sports"