Barcelona boss Ronald Koeman says the video assistant referee system seems to be “only used to make decisions against Barca” after Sergio Ramos’ penalty helped Real Madrid win El Clasico. Federico Valverde smashed Real, who had lost their previous two games, into the lead from Karim Benzema’s pass.  Barcelona’s Ansu Fati, 17, levelled from Jordi Alba’s cross, becoming the youngest scorer in El Clasico history. Ramos scored from the spot and Luka Modric smashed in a late third. The turning point was a lengthy VAR decision for the Ramos penalty.  Referee Juan Martínez Munuera did not spot Clement Lenglet’s pull on Ramos’ shirt but eventually gave a penalty after viewing it on the screen. Barca had two penalty appeals turned down – for a Raphael Varane challenge on Lionel Messi and a possible Varane handball.  “I don’t understand VAR, I think it is only used to make decisions against Barca,” said Koeman, whose side have only picked up seven points from five games.  “You always get shirt tugs like that in the area and I think Ramos makes a foul on Lenglet first. There’s a tug of the shirt, but not enough to make him fall behind as he did. For me it’s not a penalty.  Real Madrid returned to winning ways with a vital victory at bitter rivals Barcelona in which Sergio Ramos netted from 12 yards.   Sergio Ramos returned to win and score a game-turning penalty in Real Madrid's 3-1 Clasico win at Barcelona on Saturday. Madrid captain Ramos was substituted in last… October 25, 2020 In "Sports" Real Madrid's players were stunned by Lionel Messi's request to leave rivals Barcelona, sources close to the dressing room have told ESPN, with a frantic bout of WhatsApp messaging following as they, like the rest of the football world, came to terms with the week's shock news. The squad were said… August 28, 2020 In "Sports" Incorrect penalty decisions were made by the video assistant referee in all three of Thursday's games, the Premier League has told BBC Match of the Day. Bruno Fernandes won a spot-kick which he scored in Manchester United's 3-0 win over Aston Villa. James Ward-Prowse hit the bar after a disputed… July 10, 2020 In "Sports"