The Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) has condemned in strong terms the recent attack by some yet to be identified hoodlums on Complete Communications Ltd, publishers of Complete Sports Newspaper.
SWAN President, Honour Sirawoo, who regretted the development charged the security agencies to leave no stone unturned in fishing out the perpetrators of the dastardly act.
Sirawoo wondered why anybody in his right senses would decide to attack Complete Communications, an organisation he noted has been contributing in no small way in reducing the unemployment rate as well as entertaining its large clientele with sports stories from all over the world.
According to him, there should be no excuse for anybody to contemplate attacking the company which he noted is the pioneer of all sports newspaper that has remained consistent since 1995 when it was founded.
The SWAN President in a press release signed by secretary General of the association, Jude Opara,and made available to sportswiters, also frowned at the recent attacks on some other media houses in Lagos under the guise of #ENDSARS protests.
He however applauded the management of the affected organisations for rallying to continue with their publications which he said was a service to the nation and humanity.  The head office of Complete Communications Limited, publishers of Complete Sports newspapers in Okota, Lagos, Nigeria has been attacked by hoodlums. The hoodlums took advantage of the curfew imposed by the Lagos State Government in the wake of the violence and looting that engulfed the state in the aftermath… October 25, 2020 In "Sports" The head office of Complete Communications Limited, publishers of Complete Sports newspapers in Okota, Lagos, Nigeria has been attacked by hoodlums.   The hoodlums seized on the curfew imposed by the Lagos State Government in the wake of the violence and looting that engulfed the state in the aftermath of… October 26, 2020 In "Sports" T he Lagos State Sports Commission has supported the Lagos State Chapter of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) with the distribution of palliatives to its members. According to a release signed by the Chairman Lagos SWAN, Debo Oshundun, the relief materials are basically food items which were… June 21, 2020 In "Sports"