  Kwara United have unveiled Brazilian winger, Lucas Alves, ahead of the coming Nigerian Professional Football League season. The unveiling ceremony wasdoneonMondaymorning, October 5, at the Kwara United office inside the stadium complex in Ilorin.  Lucas Alves who last played forSeahorsesLAexpressedhappiness after being unveiled and also promised to give his best performance for Kwara United in the coming campaign. “I am happy joining Kwara United and I’m here to help the clubachievethegoalsandtargets for the coming League season,” he said.  “The environment here is cool and thanks to the club’s chiefs who have been making me feel at home since I came to Nigeria.” Former Super Eagles and Enyimba goalkeeperDele Aiyenugbawaspartof theplayers thatjoined KwaraUnited after returning from Israel.  Midfielder Jide Fatokun from Sunshine Stars, Bashiru Monsuru from Nasarawa United and Michael Ohanu from Akwa United are also among players signed by Kwara United. Meanwhile, Kwara United and the rest of the NPFL clubs arewaitingfortheresumption of football in Nigeria.  Kwara United Football Club of Ilorin on Monday unveiled Lucas Alves, a Brazilian winger, as one of their players for the upcoming 2020/2021 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season. The unveiling ceremony was held at the club’s office inside the Kwara State Stadium Complex in Ilorin, NAN reports. Alves… October 5, 2020 In "Sports" S eventeen out of the 20 clubs competing for honours in the Nigeria Professional Football League have voted that the 2019/2020 season should come to an end amidst the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the entire world.     The decision was reached after a meeting of the representatives of the 17… June 23, 2020 In "Sports" *Saints hold Everton as VAR denies Bournemouth win over Spurs Bruno Fernandes inspired Manchester United to another impressive Premier League victory and deepened Aston Villa's relegation worries. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side continued their impressive recent run, extending their unbeaten streak to 17 games in all competitions, and closed to within… July 9, 2020 In "Sports"