… identifies threats of violence, arms gathering ahead of poll Wale Elegbede and Adewale Momoh Eleven out of the 18 local governments in Ondo State have been identified as possible hotspots for violence ahead of the governorship election taking place in the state on Saturday.
Addressing newsmen during its pre-election briefing, an election watchdog, Yiaga Africa, said it is concerned about the seeming helplessness and failure of security agents to curb acts of lawlessness and impunity being perpetrated by armed political thugs and political actors during campaigns.
Addressing the media alongside other board members of the group, Co-chair, Yiaga Africa, Dr Aisha Abdullahi, said the pre-election environment was signposted by violent campaign rhetoric and hate speech.
She said: “Yiaga Africa’s pre-election observation findings revealed a consistent trend of violence and arms stockpiling across some local government areas in the state.
“More worrisome is the attack on some female party supporters in Oba-Akoko who were allegedly beaten and stripped naked for wearing politically branded t-shirts and fez caps of one of the candidates.
“Notable LGAs where incidents of violence and arms gathering were observed include: Akoko South West, Akure South, Akure North, Akoko South-East, Akoko North-West, Irele, Idanre, Ese-Odo, Okitipupa, Ilaje and Owo.”
Yiaga Africa said it considered these local government areas as potential hotspots for violence in the election.
Also speaking, Mr Ezenwa Nwagu, Co-Chair, Yiaga Africa, called the attention of the Independent National Electoral Commission to notorious blind spots in reverine communities of Ilaje and Ese-Odo LGAs, stating that poll must commence early to avoid electoral challenges.  ...as Obasanjo, Mimiko meet An election monitoring group, Yiaga Africa Watching The Vote, has identified at least six Local Government Areas (LGs) in Ondo State as flashpoint during the October 10 governorship election holding in the state. This was contained in its first Pre-Election Observation (PREO) Report made available to… September 30, 2020 In "News" A citizen-led election observation initiative, Yiaga Africa Watching The Vote, has said that yesterday’s governorship election was marred by ballot box snatching, sporadic shootings and interference, disruption of the election process, intimidation and harassment of observers/journalists and vote-buying.   This is as the group said there was disregard of the… September 20, 2020 In "News" Wale Elegbede There are concerns over the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rely on members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) for the deployment of sensitive elections materials for Saturday's governorship election in Ondo State. According to a report by Yiaga Africa,… October 8, 2020 In "Politics"