The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it can’t afford to lower the standard it attained in the September 19 Edo governorship election. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in a message to the staff of the commission for this weekend’s Ondo State governorship election, urged the electoral officials to resist any form of temptation. Yakubu noted that the staff, “assisted by the security agencies and other critical stakeholders, did not spare any effort in ensuring the successful conduct of the election. “Clearly, Nigerians and friends of Nigeria are pleased with the outcome and we are encouraged by their commendations.” He appealed to the staff to rise to the occasion and deliver a free, fair and credible process in Ondo State “in accordance with our established policy.” He reminded them that there is higher expectation in the Ondo State governorship. “We must consolidate on our recent achievement and account for every single vote cast on 10th October in a transparent manner which will ensure that only the choice of the electorate prevails. “I, therefore, implore all of you to resist any form of temptation and let your individual actions be guided by the extant laws and good conscience. “Always remember that any unethical action by one INEC official is capable of rubbing off on all of us. “Remain vigilant, principled and committed to the mission and vision of the commission,” the INEC Chairman advised.   The threat by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to discontinue with preparations for Edo and Ondo governorship elections if violence continues to characterise political party campaigns brings to fore, the worrisome effect of electoral violence in Nigeria, writes ONYEKACHI EZE     The signs are everywhere, and the Independent… August 16, 2020 In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it would not be distracted by the allegation against Akwa Ibom State Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) Mike Igini by the Edo All Progressives Congress (APC). INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who spoke at the swearing in of a newly appointed REC, Dr. Tella… September 1, 2020 In "Politics" The decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to declare results of Edo and Ondo governorship elections if disrupted should be supported by lovers of democracy and peaceful conduct of elections, writes ONYEKACHI EZE     T he Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), recently, read the riot act… June 21, 2020 In "Politics"