 Former African Player of the Year Victor Ikpeba believes Nigeria could have used sports as a tool to take youths away from crime. Ikpeba noted that sport is a huge sector that could accommodate millions of youth who are jobless if properly harnessed. The former Monaco of France forward tasked the federal government to give sport development at the grassroots the desired attention in order to enhance national development. “Sport has been identified as a platform through which crime could be curbed as the youths would be gainfully engaged in that venture,” he told News Agency of Nigeria. “I don’t want to sound too ‘political’ but I know that there are challenges but I am positive we can overcome these challenges by giving the youths a sense of belonging through sports. “So, I implore the federal government to come up with implementable policies that will enhance sports development in our dear country. “When this is accomplished, the nation would witness rapid socio-economic growth.” He wants sport to be developed from the grassroots, saying that little successes recorded by the country in the sector was as a result of some focus on developmental tendencies. “For a truly genuine nation-building and national integration, sport development and promotion at the grassroots must be given serious attention. “The Nigerian population is dominated by the youths who are sport lovers, hence the need to capture and shape their patriotic zeal through sport,” he said   …calls for inclusion of youths at all levels in decision making Nigerian youths join their counterparts across the world to celebrate International Youth Day (IYD). A day designated by the United Natios, (UN) to draw attention to a given set of cultural and legal issues surrounding youths. Minister charges youths… August 14, 2020 In "Feminique" Two former internationals- Edema Fuludu and Victor Ikpebarunning the football affairs of Delta State has cried foul over sports ministry’s invitation of Anambra FA officials for a meeting slated for Abuja on Monday October 12. Edema and Ikpeba were shell shocked as it came to fore that the Sunday Dare… October 9, 2020 In "Sports" Many discordant tunes have trailed the recently released list of 60 sports icons by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. The ministry unveiled the 60 icons at the Velodrome of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja on Friday, with the icons cutting across various sports and administrators. The… October 19, 2020 In "Sports"