 When Manchester United face Paris Saint Germain tonight in the Champions League duel, there will be three key battles,  The first will be that of Manchester United’s Victor Lindelof marshalling the defence to hold PSG’s most dangerous player, the Brazilian Neymar.
Lindelof will lead United’s defence in the absence of Harry Maguire and has the job of keeping Neymar quiet. If he can get to grips with the Brazil star, there is also the searing pace of Kylian Mbappe to worry about.
Next is that of stand-in skipper, Bruno Fernandes battling with PSG’s Danilo Pereira who is expected to make his PSG debut after signing on loan from FC Porto before the international break, and his duel with Portuguese compatriot Fernandes could be a significant factor in deciding the outcome of the Champions League duel.
Then comes the Luke Shaw v Angel Di Maria encounter. The Old Trafford flop Di Maria has inflicted damage on United before in the colours of Real Madrid and PSG, and will be highly motivated to do so again. Shaw will have his work cut out to stop the Argentine.  Paris St-Germain forward Angel di Maria has been banned for four matches for his role in a bad-tempered Ligue 1 defeat by Marseille on September 13. Di Maria, 32, was accused of spitting at Marseille defender Alvaro Gonzalez during a match in which five players were also sent off after… September 23, 2020 In "Sports" Paris St-Germain forward Angel di Maria has been banned for four matches for his role in a bad-tempered Ligue 1 defeat by Marseille on September 13. Di Maria, 32, was accused of spitting at Marseille defender Alvaro Gonzalez during a match in which five players were also sent off after… September 24, 2020 In "Sports" Bayern Munich overcame Paris St-Germain in a tightly contested Champions League final in Lisbon to claim the crown for the sixth time. Kingsley Coman, who started his career at PSG, settled a tense affair with a 59th-minute header at the far post from Joshua Kimmich's cross to leave the… August 24, 2020 In "Sports"