A Magistrates’ Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, yesterday sentenced four youths, Adeleke Azeez (20), Isola Segun (18), Odewale Maliq (18) and Ayoola Pelumi (15), to five years imprisonment for escaping from police custody. However, they were given an option of fine with six strokes of the cane each. The convicts were arraigned on a three-count charge of conspiracy, unlawful escape and willful damage of police custody.  The police prosecutor, Mr. Adeoye Kayode, told the court that the convicts committed  the crime on July 27, 2020 about 3am at Dugbe Police Station, Osogbo. He added that the convicts damaged the iron door and the roofing sheet of Dugbe Police Station to escape from custody.  According to the charge sheet, the crime is contrary to and punishable under Sections 516,135(a) and 151(b) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34 Vol ll, Law of Osun State, 2002. The four convicts pleaded guilty to the charges. Their counsel, Mr. Adedoyin Ajewole, prayed the court to consider their age, caution and discharged his clients. But the magistrate, Abayomi Ajala, sentenced the convicts to two years imprisonment for each of the first and second charges.  The magistrate also pronounced one year jail for the third count, saying the jail term should run concurrently. He gave the convicts an option of N9,000 fine with six strokes of the cane.  One of the inmates, who escaped from the Oko Correctional Centre in Edo State, Onorede Benjamin, snatched a car barely 30 minutes after he fled prison. Benjamin was one of the over 1,000 inmates set free by hoodlums who attacked two holding facilities in the state during the #EndSARS protests.… December 1, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" An Osun State High Court, sitting in Osogbo, yesterday discharged and acquitted a nurse, Alfred Aderibigbe, who was alleged to have injected the late Senator Isiaka Adeleke. Aderibigbe was indicted by the coroner inquest led by a Magistrate, Dr. Olusegun Ayilara, for allegedly administering an overdose of drugs on the… December 4, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" The Akwa Ibom State High Court sitting in Uyo, has sentenced three persons to death for kidnapping a four-year-old boy in Ikot Inyang Idung village, Uyo Local Government Area. The condemned kidnappers are: 24-year-old Victor Etim Bassey, a native of Ikot Inyang Idung; 35-year-old Aniediong Ezekiel Thompson, from Ifa Ikot… November 28, 2020 In "News"