President Muhammadu Buhari has been urged by the House of Representatives to issue an executive order to address matters relating to police brutality in the country.  The call was consequent upon a motion of national urgent importance sponsored yesterday by Hon. Sada Soli (PDP, Katsina) on the “need to address the possible breach of national security under the peaceful protests across the country.”  The House also appealed to the protesters to have faith in National Assembly and in the executive arm of government to find a lasting solution to the “lingering issues of general police misconduct.”  In adopting the motion, the House resolved to constitute an ad-hoc committee to interface with relevant security agencies and interest groups to ensure a peaceful end to the on-going #EndSARS protests.  The ad-hoc committee, which would be chaired by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Ahmed Wase, would consist of the House Leader, Hon. Alhassan Ado-Doguwa; the Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu and representatives of the committees on defence, police, army, air force and navy. The others are interior, national security and intelligence and human rights. While leading debate on the motion, the lawmaker expressed concern that the legitimate protests of the #EndSARS protesters are being infiltrated by hoodlums, which may result in the breakdown of law and order in the country.  He noted that “if adequate measures are not taken to address the protests, the country may be thrown into a state of complete anarchy, resulting in needless loss of lives and properties and posing a threat to governance across the country.” The motion was unanimously endorsed.  The Senate, yesterday, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently address the nation on the on-going #End- SARS nationwide protest, with a view to ending the agitations. The Senate passed this resolution following its consideration of a motion entitled: "EndSARS and the need for a comprehensive and holistic reform of the… October 21, 2020 In "News" Sanwo-Olu raises panel, floats victims' trust fund Nigerians have right to protest -Senate President Protest, lesson for leaders, says Makinde Thousands of demonstrators marched on the streets of major cities in several states of the federation yesterday in continuation of the #EndSARS protests. From Lagos to Port Harcourt in Rivers… October 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Not more than seven states have so far established state-based judicial panels of inquiry to investigate complaints of police brutality or related extrajudicial killings with a view to delivering justice for all victims of the dissolved Special Anti-Robbery Squads (SARS) and other police units as directed by the National Economic… October 20, 2020 In "Politics"