Police said yesterday that they had identified the leader of the armed robbers who recently raided the only bank at Iyin-Ekiti in Irepodun Ifelodun Local Government Area of Ekiti State.  The state Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, who disclosed this, gave the suspect’s name as Omotoyinbo Samuel, who had earlier been declared wanted by the police for kidnapping.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Sunday Abutu, said in a statement that “Oguntoyinbo is suspected to have led the gang of armed robbers who recently attacked the branch of WEMA Bank in Iyin- Ekiti”. He said: “Our investigation so far has revealed how Omotoyinbo Samuel actively participated in the bank  robbery as mastermind and other robberies, kidnapping and murder incidents in Ekiti State and Ondo State.  “His real name is Omotoyinbo Samuel but popularly called ELEVEN (11) in Ekiti State and BADO in Ondo State. “He is an indigene of Iyin-Ekiti Ekiti, Ekiti State where the recent bank robbery incident took place.  “The command therefore urges any person with useful information that could lead to the arrest of the suspect to please contact the nearest police station or the SARS department on 07031620186 or the PPRO on 09064050086.”  A second generation bank at Iyin Ekiti, Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Area of Ekiti State was yesterday attacked by a gang of armed robbers, who carted away several millions of naira. The six-man gang armed bandits besieged the bank around 3.30pm and blasted the security door with explosive devisesuspectedtobedynamitebefore moving straight… October 3, 2020 In "News" Police have arrested members of a seven-man gang suspected to have robbed three commercial banks in Ekiti and Ondo states. The suspects were arrested by policemen attached to the Special Tactical Squad (STS). The robbery operations, which resulted in the killing of six policemen, were carried out in 2019, and… July 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" A seven-man gang suspected to have have robbed three commercial banks in Ekiti and Ondo states, have been arrested by police operatives attached to the Special Tactical Squad (STS). The robbery operations, which resulted in the killing of six policemen, were carried out in 2019 and 2020. Force Public Relations… July 9, 2020 In "News"