Polish teenager Iga Swiatek completed a stunning rise by becoming the lowestranked woman to win the French Open after beating American Sofia Kenin. Swiatek, 19, is a former junior Wimbledon champion but the world number 54’s rise to Roland Garros history has been swift and surprising.  She showed few nerves to beat fourth seed Kenin 6-4 6-1, lifting the trophy without losing a set in the tournament.  “I don’t know what is going on, I’m so happy,” a smiling Swiatek said. Swiatek is the first player from Poland to win a Grand Slam singles title. She is the youngest French Open champion since Monica Seles lifted the Coupe Suzanne Lenglen in 1992.  “It is crazy. Two years ago I won a junior Grand Slam and now I’m here,” added Swiatek, who was laughing before her voice cracked with emotion. “It feels like such a short time. I’m so overwhelmed.”  Swiatek dropped to her haunches and cupped her mouth in disbelief after cracking a forehand winner on her first match point.  After asking the umpire for permission, she ran across Court Philippe Chatrier to find her nearest and dearest, eventually being pointed in the right direction to run up to her support team and family in the players’ box.   Nobody gave her any chance at the start of the tournament as she was not one of the seeded players but the way Igar Swiatek demolished top seed Simona Halep in the fourth round will make everyone to rate her high when she faces another illustrious opponent Sofia Kenin in… October 10, 2020 In "Back Page Columnist" Two-time Grand Slam champion Garbine Muguruza has been knocked out of the US Open, losing in straight sets to Tsvetana Pironkova. The Spanish 10th seed, who reached this year's Australian Open final, lost 7-5 6-3 at Flushing Meadows. Pironkova, 32, is playing her first tournament since Wimbledon 2017, after which… September 4, 2020 In "Sports" Fourth seed Naomi Osaka overcame a scare to beat fellow Japanese player Misaki Doi in three sets and avoid a major shock in the US Open first round. Osaka, who won the first of her two Grand Slams at Flushing Meadows in 2018, wobbled in the second set before… September 1, 2020 In "Sports"