Abdulateef Yusuf Bamidele, a 24-year-old man, has been kidnapped by gunmen in the federal capital territory (FCT). The incident occurred in the early hours of Friday at Guidna, Kubwa, a community in Bwari area council of the FCT. The Abuja National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) orientation camp is not far from Guidna. Speaking with online newspaper, TheCable on Friday, Fasuat Yusuf, Bamidele’s mother, said the kidnappers attacked their home at 1:25am after scaling a fence. Yusuf said despite demanding money, the kidnappers — numbering about four — abducted Bamidele. “They came to the window and they said they needed money, they said we should open the door, that if we don’t open the door what they will do would be worse,” she said. “After we allowed them into the house, they said ‘where is the money’, when I brought money from my sales of two days, they said it is not enough, they said ‘it is not enough’.” Yusuf said the kidnappers made an attempt to take her away but when she could not scale the fence, they opted for her son. “They took me but I could not climb the fence, so they came back for my son,” she said. When contacted Miriam Yusuf, spokesperson of the FCT police command, said that they are aware of the incident and are making effort to rescue him. “The police are making efforts to rescue the victim. We have launched an operation,” Yusuf said.   Two escort policemen attached to the Managing Director of popular eatery, GT Plaza were on Wednesday night shot dead by suspected kidnappers in Benin the Edo State capital. The heavy armed men had trailed the convoy of the GT Plaza boss, Elder Pius Omofuma with the intent of kidnapping him.… July 9, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Kidnappers have shot dead two policemen attached to the Managing Director of a popular eatery, GT Plaza, in Benin, Edo State. The heavily armed men had on Wednesday night trailed the convoy of the GT Plaza boss, Elder Pius Omofuma, with the intent of kidnapping him. The suspects were said… July 10, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" Dare devil kidnappers, who wanted to abduct some residents in Kaduna State on Thursday, shot dead two persons before fleeing into the bush. The diseased were allegedly shot dead Thursday night when the kidnappers in their numbers invaded the community but were challenged by the youths who mobilised themselves and… August 29, 2020 In "News"