Birthdays are special occasions both for celebrities and their fans. It’s no news that Nollywood actresses go all out to celebrate and make their birthdays special. They also do not fail to share stunning photos on their social media platforms. Nollywood actress and entrepreneur, Peggy Ovire, popularly known as ‘Ego Oyinbo’ took to social media to celebrate her birthday. She had already started sharing beautiful pictures on her page days before the date. In the beautiful photo she shared on her Instagram page, the actress wore a sultry white outfit with silver sequins. She laid on the floor with glitters and balloon decorations. Meanwhile, Peggy once said that Igbo men are the most unromantic set of men in the world. It has often been heard that men from the eastern part of Nigeria are more of doers than talkers and this makes them appear unromantic. Clearly, Ovire also held this belief. She took to her Instagram page to state that Igbo men were the most unromantic set of men in the world  ...Modupe Ozolua wonders if the nation can get it right   It is four days to Nigeria’s 60th independence. Though the atmosphere is not as exciting as expected among ever Jolly Nigerian citizens, Sunday Telegraph seized the opportunity to hear from celebrities who share their birthday month with Nigeria’s independence… September 27, 2020 In "Body & Soul" Veteran Nollywood actress, Shan George, is obviously a ‘never say never’ person going by how she is usually willing to give love a chance. The film star appears to have found love again and is getting set to walk down the aisle for the fourth time. George took to social… September 11, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Actress Rosemond Alade Brown, better known as Akuapem Poloo, has apologised for sharing a nude photo of herself on social media to celebrate her son’s birthday. The actress has been facing backlash on social media platforms after the nude photo went viral, with many accusing her of promoting pornography. But… July 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"