Super Eagles striker, Victor Osimhen, finally broke his goal duck for Napoli and celebrated the strike with a #EndSARS banner. Osimhen joined Napoli from Lille during the transfer window and despite playing well in the last two games; he was unable to get on the scoresheet until the 4-1 defeat of Atalanta on Saturday.  The striker scored the fourth goal for Napoli and celebrated by paying homage to the protests against police brutality in his native Nigeria as Gennaro Gattuso’s side thrashed Atalanta in Serie A at the San Paolo.  The striker held up a T-shirt with the inscription “#ENDPOLICEBRUTALITYINNIGERIA” as he paid homage to the 11-day protests against police brutality and the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in his home country.  A quick-fire Hirving Lozano brace and a strike from Matteo Politano had put a rampaging Napoli  side three goals up before Osimhen added a fourth as the home side overran the visitors in the first half.  Sam Lammers pulled one back after the interval for the visitors who suffered a first defeat and failed  to score more than one goal in the league for the first time this season.  It was the perfect response for Napoli following Serie A’s controversial decision to dock them a point and award Juventus a 3-0 win over an unplayed game before the international break.  Napoli failed to turn up in Turin for the game after local authorities barred them from travelling following two positive COVID-19 tests before the game on October 4.  The league dismissed their appeals to award Juventus then win and hand Napoli a first defeat of the season. But they rebounded in impressive fashion with a victory that takes them to third in the table one point behind leaders AC Milan who played city rivals Inter later on Saturday.  The Nigeria Football Federation has announced that Napoli striker, Victor Osimhen, has been excused from the Super Eagles international friendly games against Algeria and Tunisia scheduled for Austria on October 9 and 13.   According to a post on the NFF twitter handle, it was stated that: “@victorosimhen9 has been… October 4, 2020 In "Sports" ...as Napoli prepares soft-landing in case striker fails •Deal worth €60m, not €81m Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen will not walk straight into the starting line up of Napoli despite his impending record move to the club, the coach Gennaro Gattuso, has reportedly told the Nigerian. Osimhen’s transfer is expected… July 24, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen marked his first training at his new Serie A side Napoli with a goal to the delight of the fans and his coach, Gattuso.   The 21-year-old forward reported to the club last weekend and he was involved in his first training session of the… August 26, 2020 In "Sports"