Cesar Azpilicueta was forced to step in and stop Tammy Abraham taking a penalty in Chelsea’s Premier League clash with Crystal Palace. The England forward grabbed the ball after Kai Havertz had won his side a second spot-kick of the afternoon, with Abraham keen to add to his tally in the league for the 2020-21 campaign.  Indeed, Frank Lampard handed a start to the 23-year-old for the fixture against Roy Hodgson’s side at Stamford Bridge as Abraham was picked to lead the line following his goal in the 3-3 draw with West Brom.  The Blues were cruising in the match at the time, with summer signing Ben Chilwell scoring on his Premier League debut for the club, before Jorginho netted a penalty after Abraham was fouled by Tyrick Mitchell.  Jorginho is the Blues’ designated penalty taker, with the former Napoli star having already scored a penalty in the 3-1 win over Brighton in Chelsea’s opening league fixture of the season.  He also took one and scored in the shoot-out defeat to Tottenham in the Carabao Cup fourth round, with Mason Mount’s effort, that was smashed wide of the target, ultimately costing his side.  So, with a second penalty of the afternoon awarded against Palace, Jorginho naturally expected to have the chance to double his tally in the match and put the Blues into a commanding 4-0 lead. Abraham, though, had other ideas.  The striker immediately claimed the ball after Havertz was brought down by Mamadou Sakho in the box, expecting to be allowed the chance to score his third goal of the season in all competitions.  But club captain, Azpilicueta was having none of it, though, as he ensured the ball was handed to Italy international Jorginho, who duly stepped up to slot home again.  Abraham was clearly annoyed at the incident, uttering words of frustration, as he moved away from the penalty spot and gesturing towards Azpilicueta as he felt he should have been allowed the chance to score.  There didn’t appear to be any lasting issue thereafter, however, and Lampard admitted after the game that it’s been “dealt with”.   Summer signing Ben Chilwell scored one and assisted another on his first Premier League start since his £45m move from Leicester City as Chelsea returned to winning ways against Crystal Palace at Stamford Bridge. Having made his first appearance on Tuesday as Frank Lampard's side were knocked out of the… October 3, 2020 In "Sports" •Wins for Everton, Chelsea   Leeds' record signing Rodrigo took advantage of an Ederson error to earn a Leeds a draw and prompt more questions for struggling Manchester City. City dominated initially, with Kevin de Bruyne's free-kick striking the post before Raheem Sterling hit the opener. Leeds came back into… October 4, 2020 In "Sports" *Brighton cruise past Magpies, Son sinks Saints with 4 goals Sadio Mane scored two second-half goals as defending champions Liverpool won comfortably at Stamford Bridge against 10-man Chelsea in the Premier League. Defender Andreas Christensen bundled over Mane - denying a goalscoring opportunity - on the stroke of half-time and… September 20, 2020 In "Sports"