*Activists also gather at Alausa The #EndSARS protesters have again blocked the Lekki Toll plaza in Lekki, Lagos.
This comes after the youths rejected the new tactical police unit,  SWAT, which was announced by the Inspector General of Police on Tuesday.
The protesters were outin full force at the Lekki Toll Plaza with many of them showing off their dancing skills at the location.
Most motorists ostensibly aware of the likelihood of another protest on Wednesday stayed clear of the area.
The protesters had barricaded both lanes of the road ensuring that vehicles would not be able to pass.
Lending his voice to #EndSWAT, ace music producer, DonJazzy, in a post via his Twitter account, insisted that the new unit SWAT should be ended before the government starts listing unnecessary expenses used to set up the unit.
“They should just end this SWAT now before it starts o,” he wrote
Meanwhile, reports reaching New Telegraph also indicate that protesters are again gathering at Alausa where more tents have sprung up.
Also a number of portable convenience have been placed around the area ostensibly for the use of the protesters.  Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has joined #EndSARS protesters. The protesters who stormed Alausa, the seat of power in Lagos, early in the morning were presently surprised to see the state's number one citizen not ordering security operatives to clear them but rather identifying with them. On Monday… October 13, 2020 In "Top Stories" ...as activists take over Lekki Toll Plaza again EndSARS protesters in Rivers State stormed the streets of Port Harcourt, the state capital on Tuesday in defiance to Governor Nyesom Wike’s directive. The youths, who converged opposite the Pleasure Park at Aba Road, began their procession carrying placards and chanting “End… October 13, 2020 In "News" The #EndSARS protesters have shut down the Admiralty toll plaza in Lekki, Lagos, according to reports reaching New Telegraph. The #EndSARS protests led by Nigerian youths have continued despite the Inspector-General of Police announcing the immediate disbandment of the Special Anti-robbery Squad (SARS) following a nationwide outcry over its… October 12, 2020 In "Top Stories"