 Former ACB and Super Eagles defender, Austin Eguavoen, has been appointed as the Technical Director of the Nigeria Football Federation. The ex-Bendel Insurance defence ace took over from former Super Eagles coach, Bitrus Bewarang, whose contract expired before the break out of Coronavirus pandemic in March. The Executive Committee of the NFF on Tuesday approved the former defender as the new Director Technical. This is contained in a communique signed by NFF Spokesman, Ademola Olajire, which reads: “The Executive Committee approved a presentation by the Chairman of the Technical & Development Committee for the appointment of former Super Eagles’ Captain and Coach, Mr. Augustine Eguavoen, as the new Technical Director of the NFF. The statement added that former Flying Eagles coach, Paul Aigbogun becomes his assistant while Abdurafiu Yusuf and Siji Lagunju remain Assistant Directors. He will work with the following persons, whose appointments were also approved: Mr. Paul Aigbogun (Deputy Director, Technical and Scouting); Terry Babatunde Eguaoje (Consultant on Coaching and Development); Abdulrafiu Yusuf (Assistant Director, Coaching and Development); Siji Lagunju (Assistant Director, Training and Development) and; Garba Lawal (Chief Technical Officer). The appointments are with immediate effect. Eguavoen who has coached almost all categories of the Nigerian national teams with the exception of the women teams, was given the job after the football body’s first choice Emmanuel Amuneke turned down the offer over monetary terms disagreement  The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has announced the appointment of Mr. Randy Waldrum as the new Head Coach of the Senior Women National Team, Super Falcons. Waldrum, an American who played as a midfielder, has worked largely within the American women football circle and was head coach of… October 5, 2020 In "Sports" Ex-international Sam Sodje believes new Super Eagles assistant coach Joseph Yobo will permanently solve the defence problem in the team with his appointment and urged Manager Gernot Rohr to give the former national team captain the chance to work mainly on his back line. The Nigeria Football Federation had replaced… June 24, 2020 In "Sports" The Nigeria Football Federation on Monday announced the appointment of Randy Waldrum as the new Manager of the Senior Women National Team, Super Falcons, replacing former handler Thomas Dernerby.   The Falcons has been without a coach since the Swedish left his position in 2019 while Christopher Danjuma served as… October 6, 2020 In "Sports"