 Wale Elegbede There are concerns over the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rely on members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) for the deployment of sensitive elections materials for Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State.
According to a report by Yiaga Africa, the partisan background of some members of the NURTW to some political parties, could make them to be used by politicians to  deliberately undermine the election causing late commencement of polls.
The Centre said the polls may commence late if the NURTW delayed or refused to convey election officials and materials to the polling units.
Yiaga cited the recent Edo election where members of the NURTW refused to deploy early to the registration areas camps citing reasons such as inability to fuel their cars, and renegotiate on the contract sum on the day of the election as an example.
Recall that INEC and NURTW had a working agreement for the provision of vehicles for the transportation of election materials on election day.  ...as Obasanjo, Mimiko meet An election monitoring group, Yiaga Africa Watching The Vote, has identified at least six Local Government Areas (LGs) in Ondo State as flashpoint during the October 10 governorship election holding in the state. This was contained in its first Pre-Election Observation (PREO) Report made available to… September 30, 2020 In "News" …as PDP cries sabotage •Inferno shocking, unfortunate, says Akeredolu The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday insisted that the October 10, Ondo State governorship election would go ahead as scheduled, following the fire incident, which engulfed the ICT unit of the state’s headquarters of the electoral body. About 5,141 card… September 12, 2020 In "News" Tension heightened in Akure, Ondo State, yesterday when members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state invaded the state House of Assembly complex.   Sources within the Assembly said the NURTW members were brought in to prevent four suspended lawmakers who were recently… September 8, 2020 In "Metro & Crime"