The Senate will consider for approval tomorrow, the report of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB). The bill has been pending in the National Assembly since 2009, when it was first introduced, when the first draft was submitted to the apex legislative institution. The Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, had at a recent interactive session with the leadership of the National Assembly on the objectives of the bill, appealed to the lawmakers to expeditiously pass the bill. Stakeholders in the oil industry believe that if and when passed into law, the PIB would help to revolutionize the nation’s economy, even as the value of oil drastically diminishes as a major source of revenue globally. Various interest groups and individuals have been expressing concerns that vested political interests were the responsible for the bill not becoming law in the last 10 years. However, the leadership of the Ninth National Assembly had consistently declared the readiness of the current assembly to break the jinx and pass the bill. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, told Nigerians last week, that the Red chamber would consider the contentious bill, just as he promised that the legislation would be passed by Ninth assembly. Similarly, the Senate will tomorrow, suspend plenary after consideration of the Petroleum Industry Bill, to enable its Standing Committees commence defence of the 2021 budget estimates by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of Government. Lawan disclosed this after the Senate passed for second reading the 2021 Appropriations Bill which presently before the National Assembly for consideration.   NASS pledges speedy passage of PIB   Sylva: NNPC won't be scrapped     Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Mr. Timipre Sylva, yesterday, stated that crude oil would  soon lose its value in Nigeria as the mainstay of the economy just as the product is fast losing its economic… September 29, 2020 In "News" The Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) was expected to, for the umpteenth time, be submitted to the National Assembly for passage highlighting happenings in industry during the third quarter of 2020. Adeola Yusuf, in this analysis, shows how unstable fiscal regime and dearth of foreign capital foistered in the country based… September 29, 2020 In "Business" Following another hike in price of petrol by the Federal Government, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has called on the National Assembly to urgently pass the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) into law. Reacting to the hike, the Acting Director General of MAN, Paul Oruche, said passage of the bill… August 7, 2020 In "News"