Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, yesterday felicitated with the Muslim community on the commemoration of the epochal birth of Prophet Muhammad, saying that the occasion again called for deeper reflections within the human race. “The birth of Prophet Muhammad and his rise to prophet-hood some 40 years after, changed the course of human history and civilisation forever. The commemoration of the day serves as another reminder to everyone about how best to lead an impactful life for the good of humanity,” the governor said in a statement. “As the Muslim community commemorates the birth of the prophet, it is important that we take full advantage of what the noble messenger of God bequeathed to humanity in law, ethics, manners and relationships with fellow human beings. As remarkably said by one of the virtuous predecessors, successful indeed are those who make the Prophet their life coach. “I therefore join the rest of the world to congratulate all Muslims on the Maulid Nabiyy and urge everyone to reflect on the lessons of his birth and life.  Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday felicitated with Muslims in the state and across the world on the occasion of this year’s Eidel- Maulud celebration, urging them to pray for peace in Nigeria. Oyetola, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, said the best way Muslims… October 30, 2020 In "News" Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman Abdul- Razaq, has congratulated the Muslim community especially in Kwara State on the dawn of a new Islamic (calendar) year 1442 AH, praying the God Almighty to let the year bring ease and an end to the siege imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Nigerian Supreme… August 22, 2020 In "News" Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu, has felicitated with the Muslim community on the occasion of this year’s Eid el- Maulud celebration. The former governor, while commending religious leaders and traditional rulers for promoting peace and unity across the country, called on… October 29, 2020 In "News"