 The Eko Electricity Distribution Company has said it did not stop power supply in the Admiralty Toll Plaza on Lekki -Epe Expressway, Lagos, on October 20. 2020.
Recall that on October 20, Lekki tollgate was cut off from supply when some army officers shot at peaceful protesters.
In a statement by its General Manager, Corporate Communications, Godwin Idemudia, EKEDC said Lagos State  had contracted the supply of electricity to the plaza to an Independent Power Plant.
He said: “We will like to respectfully and categorically state that EKEDC does not handle power supply to the Lekki tollgate; they independently generate their own power supply through IPPs. The rest of the Lekki area supplied by EKEDC had power supply from us throughout the night save for any areas where there were technical faults.
“We are extremely saddened by the turn of events and we stand with all well-meaning Nigerians who want a better future for our dear nation. EKEDC Management will continue to provide best possible electricity supply, customer service and fault resolution.”  •Says Sanwo-Olu was ‘misinformed' about deaths •CCTV footage shows seven military trucks heading to the plaza   The Nigerian Army has admitted that it took live rounds to the Lekki Tollgate on October 20, 2020, when #EndSARS protesters were dispersed after two weeks of converging on the place. Ibrahim Taiwo,… November 22, 2020 In "News" The electricity transmission system also known as the National Grid collapsed yesterday plunging the whole of Lagos and major cities across the country into darkness for about four hours. This, according to checks by New Telegraph, is the second time in less than three months that the grid suffered a… February 18, 2021 In "News" The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwoolu, is in talks with the Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) to ensure that all houses connected to the grid on the state are meterrd before June, 2023.   Lagos State Commissioner for Energy and Natural Resources, Olalere Odusote, who declared this during… November 3, 2020 In "News"