 American reggae and pop singer-songwriter Johnny Nash, best known for the 1972 hit I Can See Clearly Now, has died aged 80, his family has said.
Nash, whose health had been in decline, died at his home of natural causes on Tuesday, his son told US media.
The musician began singing as a child and made his major label debut with the 1957 song A Teenager Sings the Blues, reports the BBC.
Nash, born in Houston, was one of the first non-Jamaican singers to record reggae music in Kingston, Jamaica.
His single I Can See Clearly Now sold more than a million copies and reached the top of the Billboard Hot 100 chart in 1972, where it remained for four weeks.
He also had a number one hit in the UK in 1975 with Tears on My Pillow.
According to his official website, Nash helped reggae legend Bob Marley sign a recording contract.
More recently, the artist started work on transferring old analogue tapes of his songs from the 1970s and 1980s to a new digital format.
Besides his son John, Nash is survived by his wife, Carli.  More than 1 million people have died after contracting the novel coronavirus and over 33 million infected. Leading figures in politics, sport, royalty and entertainment are among them: * PROMINENT CASES * British actor Robert Pattinson tested positive for COVID-19, news media reported on Sept. 3, halting production of… September 29, 2020 In "News" Ronald “Khalis” Bell, a cofounder and singer of the group Kool & the Gang, has died. He was 68. Bell died at his home in the US Virgin Islands Wednesday morning with his wife by his side, publicist Sujata Murthy said. The cause of death has not been released.… September 10, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Fast-rising singer and songwriter, Obiajulu Kachikwuru Okeyokafor, better known as Jaybytee, is out with his explosive dancehall music. The jaw-breaking vibes according to industry observers is in a class of its own, given the quality of the lyrics and production which is not found anywhere in the country at the… June 19, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"