Mrs. Amaka Emmanuel, a 44-year-old woman, who gave birth to seven babies at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada, on Tuesday, has appealed for assistance from the Federal Government and other Nigerians. Emmanuel, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday, said the septuplets came 10 years after her first child. She said: “The delivery was a miracle and I thank God Almighty. I want the Federal Government to assist me in cash and kind to enable me to bring up these children.” Earlier, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital, Prof. Bissallah Ekele, told NAN that two of the babies died after delivery. He said: “The remaining five are doing fine in the incubators. They are doing well and healthy enough in the incubators, but a lot more is needed to keep them alive. Management has been doing its best to ensure both the mother and the babies stay healthy.” The CMD said the seven babies were the highest delivery ever recorded in the hospital, and commended the hospital’s gynecologists and pediatricians for making it possible. A Chief Consultant Gynecologist, Dr. Gga Vandi Kwaghe, told NAN that the delivery, through a caesarian session, was successful “following careful handling by competent hands”.   It is the desire of every family to have a number of children it can carter for in view of present economic realities. But many families end up having more children. UCHENNA INYA, in Abakaliki, reports on the family of Emmanuel Nkwuda Lawal of Ndiechi Onuebonyi in Izzi Local Government… August 13, 2020 In "News" Malnutrition is said to be a pathological condition brought about by inadequacy of one or more of the nutrients essential for survival, growth, development, reproduction and capacity to learn and function in the society. This is invisible, yet deadly. Breast, which is the ‘first kitchen’ for the baby’s meal, remains… August 10, 2019 In "Investigation" Women and girls with Vesicovagina Fistula (VVF) have continued to suffer all manner of ridicule, rejection and humiliation because they leak urine and faeces which often produce offensive odour. But after they are repaired, they become the beautiful brides of their homes, writes UCHENNA INYA Vesicovaginal Fistula (VVF) is a… October 8, 2020 In "Insight"