 Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says the club “know my view” about transfer activity before the window closes on Monday.
While some rivals have added to their squads significantly, United’s only signing is Netherlands midfielder Donny van de Beek, who cost £40m from Ajax, reports the BBC.
Executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward says matches played behind closed doors have hit the club financially.
“The club has been working,” said Solskjaer on Friday.
Borussia Dortmund rejected United’s most recent approach for England winger Jadon Sancho, who is Solskjaer’s top target. and while there has been interest in Barcelona forward Ousmane Dembele, there has been no suggestion a loan deal for the France international is close.
Porto’s Brazilian full-back Alex Telles is another target.
The deadline for international transfers and moves between Premier League clubs is 23:00 BST on Monday, though top-flight sides can still sign players from the English Football League until 17:00 on 16 October.
“They [United] know my view,” added Solskjaer. “The transfer window is still open for a little while. If something happens in or out you will get to know.
“There are many ways of improving a team. I keep reading about the players who should be playing instead of the ones who aren’t because they are performing well. That tells me I have a strong squad. There is competition for places.
“We need results. That is the only way of affecting the mood at the club – the players and staff. All the rest is short-term moods.”  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is hopeful Paul Pogba will sign a new Manchester United contract and play an important role in the club's future success. Pogba has long been linked with a move to Real Madrid or former side Juventus, and even admitted himself last year that he was looking for… July 9, 2020 In "Sports" Tottenham have moved ahead of Manchester United in the race to sign Gareth Bale from Real Madrid, sources have told ESPN. Any prospects of a switch to Old Trafford for the 31-year-old are dependent on the outcome of United's pursuit of Borussia Dortmund winger Jadon Sancho. Spurs manager Jose Mourinho has made it… September 15, 2020 In "Sports" Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says his players "will put it right" after they missed a chance to climb into the Premier League's top four by conceding an injury-time equaliser against Southampton. United led 2-1 for 73 minutes before substitute Michael Obafemi scored in the 96th minute, bundling… July 14, 2020 In "Sports"