 Manchester United’s hopes of signing Porto’s Alex Telles appear to be fading after their £15.4m offer for the left-back was rejected by the Portuguese champions.
United are running out of a time to secure a deal for the Brazil international, with the transfer window closing for Premier League clubs at 11pm on Monday.
While United offered £15.4m for Telles, Porto are demanding £22m, despite the 27-year-old being in the final year of his contract, reports Sky Sports.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is keen to bring in a new left-back before Monday’s deadline to add competition for Luke Shaw, who has struggled with injuries since arriving at Old Trafford in 2014, and Brandon Williams, who only broke into the first team last season.
Telles arrived at Porto from Galatasaray in 2016 and has gone on to win two Portuguese league titles and the Portuguese cup in nearly 200 appearances for the club.
Porto’s rejection is the latest episode in a frustrating summer for United, whose only signing during this window has been Donny van de Beek from Ajax.
The pursuit of their main target during this window, Jadon Sancho, appears close to failure after Borussia Dortmund’s sporting director Michael Zorc said on Saturday “the door is closed” on the move.  Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says the club "know my view" about transfer activity before the window closes on Monday. While some rivals have added to their squads significantly, United's only signing is Netherlands midfielder Donny van de Beek, who cost £40m from Ajax, reports the BBC. Executive… October 2, 2020 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjær has denied he will be frustrated if Manchester United do not strengthen as markedly as Liverpool, Manchester City and Chelsea, saying this would be “disrespectful” to Donny van de Beek. The manager has signed only the 24-year-old midfielder in the window, for an initial £34.7m from Ajax, but… September 26, 2020 In "Sports" Inter have opened negotiations with Chelsea over buying the left-back Emerson Palmieri. Antonio Conte is keen to add the Italy international to his squad, having signed him for Chelsea in January 2018, and the Serie A club are prepared to offer €20m (£18m). Emerson would consider the move because… July 4, 2020 In "Sports"