Former Nigeria international and member of the newly inaugurated Delta State Football Association Sam Sodje has hailed the success of the Nigeria Football Federation on securing the international future of Hoffenheim and former Germany U-20 national team captain Kelvin Akpoguma.  Sodje speaking in a chat with brila.net described the latest acquisition as good news and a great addition to the Nigerian national football team stressing that it is good to have been able to secure the switch of allegiance.  “It is a good effort from the NFF that secured Akpoguma; he is a terrific defender and I wish him a good international future with Nigeria. “I know that he will enjoy the supports of fans as he gets integrated into the Super Eagles team.”  The 25-year-old was born to a Nigerian father and German mother and has represented Germany the U-16, U-17, U-18, U-19 and the U-20 level, but yet to make a senior international appearance for Germany. Akpoguma is currently with the team in Austria as they prepare for the clash against Algeria and Tunisia next week.  He becomes the latest player after Cyril Dessers, Ola Aina, Tyrone Ebuehi, Kingsley Ehizibue, Maduka Okoye, Brian Idowu, and Joe Aribo to switched allegiance to Nigeria under the watch Gernot Rohr.  Coach Gernot Rohr says it was his vision for Nigeria that persuaded former Germany youth captain Kevin Akpoguma to commit his international future to the Super Eagles.   Akpoguma, 25, who plays for Bundesliga side Hoffenheim, has a German mother and a Nigerian father - making him eligible to play… September 22, 2020 In "Sports" Super Eagles have been described as good enough to confront any team in the world because of the quality of youngsters that have evolved in the squad in the last three years. Ex-international Sam Sodje told our correspondent that the record-breaking transfer move of Eagles striker Victor Osimhen is a… August 14, 2020 In "Sports" ...Etebo joins Osimhen, Ndidi on sidelines   Super Eagles midfielder, Oghenekaro Etebo, has joined Napoli striker, Victor Osimhen, and Leicester City star, Wilfred Ndidi, on the sidelines after it was revealed that the turkey based player sustained a knock at the weekend.   coach of the team, Gernot Rohr, will… October 6, 2020 In "Sports"