 Appolonia Adeyemi  Now in its 29th Year, the Diamond Awards for Media Excellence (DAME) has called for entries of works produced in 2019.
Also, Nestlé Nigeria has called on nutrition and wellness writers to take advantage of this opportunity to showcase and be recognised for their articles and stories in the ‘Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting’ category of the DAME awards.
“The Nutrition Writers Category instituted in 2018 was born out of the need to not only reward, but also recognise, and celebrate excellence among nutrition and health writers.
The award is part of Nestlé’s commitment to empower journalists who are gatekeepers to ensure the wellbeing of individuals and families by providing adequate information to help them make healthier nutrition choices. They achieve this by collaborating with other stakeholders including the Lagos Business
School (LBS), the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and DAME Trust Fund to provide training and support to produce more fact-based reporting.
“We have seen an improvement in the quality of the work submitted for ‘Nestlé Prize for Nutrition Reporting’ over the past two years and look forward to even better entries this year,” said Victoria Uwadoka, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager, Nestlé Nigeria.
All categories open for entries include Nutrition Reporting, Agriculture Reporting and Education Reporting, among others.   Nestlé Nigeria and the Lagos Business School hosted the 2020 Advancing Nutrition, Health and Wellness (NHW) training in the first two weeks of June. The virtual media training programme came at a critical time when the public needs to be well informed on nutrition health and wellness to help… July 9, 2020 In "Health" As part of efforts at containing the spread of COVID- 19 pandemic, especially among vulnerable school children by ensuring adequate sanitation and good hygiene, Nestlé Nigeria has provided and inaugurated water and sanitation projects at Oke-Ona United School, Abeokuta and St Paul’s Anglican School, Orile Imo in Obafemi Owode Local… February 9, 2021 In "Education" A leading nutrition expert has called for the establishment of home economics and nutrition extension agents across the country in furtherance of efforts to curtail the menace of malnutrition, particularly protein malnutrition in Nigeria. Prof. Henrietta Nkechi Ene-Obong of the Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, University of… January 14, 2021 In "Health"