 Teenager Rayan Ait-Nouri scored on his Wolves debut as Nuno Espirito Santo’s side moved joint top of the Premier League with a deserved victory over Crystal Palace at Molineux.
The France Under-21 left-back, 19, joined the club on a season-long loan – with an option to buy – from Ligue 1 Angers this month and took just 18 minutes to announce himself with a first-time strike from Cheikhou Kouyate’s headed clearance, reports the BBC.
Portuguese winger Daniel Podence doubled the hosts’ advantage nine minutes later, carefully guiding in Pedro Neto’s cross at the back post.
Wolves went close to more first-half joy as Nelson Semedo and Leander Dendoncker went close with efforts from outside the box, while the video assistant referee denied Palace a lifeline from the penalty spot when Patrick van Aanholt was found to be offside, prior to being felled by Willy Boly.
Palace were much improved after the break but a frustrated Wilfried Zaha had a penalty appeal dismissed and a disappointing night for Roy Hodgson’s side was compounded when Luka Milivojevic was shown a red card for a tackle on Joao Moutinho in the closing stages.
A fourth victory from seven games moved Wolves up to third in the standings, level on 13 points with Everton and Liverpool who both have a game in hand.
RESULT
Wolves 2 – 0 Palace  Teenager Rayan Ait-Nouri scored on his Wolves debut as Nuno Espirito Santo's side moved joint top of the Premier League with a deserved victory over Crystal Palace at Molineux. The France Under-21 left-back, 19, joined the club on a season-long loan - with an option to buy - from Ligue 1… October 30, 2020 In "Sports" *Everton dent Sheffield Utd's Euro Hope's, as Brighton hold Newcastle Wolves eased past a hapless Crystal Palace side in the Premier League to maintain hopes of playing Europa League football next season. Nuno Espirito Santo's side move back above Tottenham into sixth place and victory at Chelsea in their… July 20, 2020 In "Sports" *Everton dent Sheffield Utd's Euro Hope's, as Brighton hold Newcastle Wolves eased past a hapless Crystal Palace side in the Premier League to maintain hopes of playing Europa League football next season. Nuno Espirito Santo's side move back above Tottenham into sixth place and victory at Chelsea in their… July 21, 2020 In "Sports"