*Say 22 officers killed, 205 stations damaged  The police have responded to the report of Amnesty International alleging that the security agency shot citizens protesting against law enforcement brutality. Amnesty International accused the police and the military of violating rights of Nigerians demanding reforms in the police. But in a statement on Friday, Frank Mba, police spokesman, alleged that 22 policemen were killed by protesters, adding that the slain officers have rights as well. “The Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu has affirmed that officers of the Nigeria Police Force acted professionally, exercised commendable restraints and some paid the supreme price for peace during the recent protests and ensuing violence in some parts of the country. The IGP made this observation following report by Amnesty International dated 21st October, 2020 that Police personnel shot at peaceful protesters. He described the Amnesty Int’l report as untrue, misleading and contrary to all available empirical evidences,” he said. “The IGP noted that during the protests, officers of the Force used legitimate means to ensure that the protests were carried out in a peaceful manner and in most cases, physically protected and walked side-by-side with the protesters. He reiterated that even when the protests turned violent in some parts of the country, the officers still maintained utmost restraint and did not use excessive force in managing the situations. “Available Reports show that twenty-two (22) police personnel were extra-judicially killed by some rampaging protesters and scores injured during the protests. Many of the injured personnel are in life threatening conditions at the hospitals. Two hundred and five (205) Police stations and formations including other critical private and public infrastructure were also damaged by a section of the protesters. “Despite these unprovoked attacks, our police officers never resorted to use of unlawful force or shooting at the protesters as alleged in the report. It also beggars imagination that Amnesty International failed to mention or pay tribute to Police officers who were gruesomely murdered during the protests while serving their fatherland. “The Force decries the discriminatory tendencies exhibited by Amnesty International as seen in the report. One wonders if in the estimation of Amnesty International, police officers are not also human beings equally entitled to the protection of their fundamental rights to life and dignity of human person.”   The Presidency has said Amnesty International does not run the country and was wrong in its report on the movement of military men from the barracks to Lekki Tollgate, where peaceful #EndSARS protesters were shot at on Tuesday, October 20. Mr. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser on Media & Publicity… October 29, 2020 In "News" The Presidency has disagreed with the global human rights body, Amnesty International (AI)'s report that the looting and arsons committed by hoodlums in some parts of the country was precipitated by the shooting of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos. Special Adviser to the President on Media… October 30, 2020 In "News" Rights group Amnesty International has raised concern about "escalating violence" in Nigeria against the #EndSars protest movement. Armed thugs had attacked protesters at the headquarters of the central bank in the capital, Abuja, it said. For their part, police accused people "posing" as protesters of looting weapons, and torching… October 19, 2020 In "News"