The Police Service Commission (PSC), yesterday said it had approved the promotion of 175 senior police officers to the next ranks. It, however, stood down the elevation of a total of 112 other officers, over what it claimed, was the failure of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, to attach the presidential directive for the creation of new departments, as well as additional zonal commands. It will be recalled that the Force Headquarters had, a few months ago, announced a major reorganisation, which included full autonomy for the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB), as well as establishment of five additional zonal command headquarters. The breakdown of the promotion showed that an Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) was promoted to the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG); one Commissioner of Police to AIG, while 167 Superintendents got elevated to the rank of Chief Superintendent of Police. The disclosure was made in a statement by the head, press and public relations of the PSC, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani. The statement reads: “The decisions were part of the highpoints of the 9th Plenary Meeting of the Commission which held in Abuja on Monday and Tuesday, September 28th and 29th, 2020 and presided over by Commission Chairman, retired Inspector General of Police, Musiliu Smith. “The Commission promoted one Assistant Inspector General of Police, AIG Sanusi Lemu to the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police, DIG, to replace retired DIG Abdulmajid Ali, representing the North Central.   ...stands down elevation of 112 others The Police Service Commission (PSC), Friday, said it had approved the promotion of 175 senior police officers to the next ranks. It, however, stood down the elevation of a total of 112 other officers, over what it claimed, was the failure of the Inspector… October 2, 2020 In "News" The Police Service Commission (PSC) yesterday approved the promotion of 6,618 senior police officers, which is aimed at fortifying the Force. Saturday Telegraph learnt that the promotion exercise was one of the high points of the 8th Plenary Meeting of the Commission, which spanned a period of three weeks, ending… July 4, 2020 In "News" The Police Service Commission has approved the promotion of 6,618 Senior Police Officers. The promotion exercise was one of the high points of the 8th Plenary Meeting of the Commission, which spanned a period of three weeks, ending July 1, 2020. It was presided over by the Commission’s Chairman, Inspector… July 3, 2020 In "News"