 Muhammad Kabir, Kano There was pandemonium in Kano on Monday morning after angry youth took to the streets of the ancient city in a violent protest over the alleged death of a 17-year-old boy, Saifullahi while being detained by the police.
Saifullahi, of Kofar Mata Quarters, was said to have been arrested two days ago by the police, while he was sleeping at the premises of his family house.
Reports have it that despite protests by people of the community that Saifullahi had not been known for any criminal tendencies, but was still detained by the police where he allegedly gave up the ghost.
Our Correspondent reliably learnt that Saifullahi had earlier been released on bail only for the police to  re-arrest and detain him again, where he was allegedly tortured to death.
The police then brought his corpse to the family house on Monday morning, a development which angered the people who took to the street to protest the boy’s death.
From Kofar Mata to the main city center angry protesting youth lite bonfires and vandalised offices and cars.  Residents of Mariri, a suburb of Kano metropolis were bewildered when police recovered the decomposing corpse of a middleaged woman locked up in a room by her husband as punishment for alleged misbehavior. Police sources confirmed that the woman died three days after her husband confined her to the room.… August 23, 2020 In "News" Sanwo-Olu raises panel, floats victims' trust fund Nigerians have right to protest -Senate President Protest, lesson for leaders, says Makinde Thousands of demonstrators marched on the streets of major cities in several states of the federation yesterday in continuation of the #EndSARS protests. From Lagos to Port Harcourt in Rivers… October 14, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" As at the time I was penning this piece, which comes out today, I was in the dark over whether the #EndSARS protests, which kicked off roughly a fortnight ago, will still be in full swing. But whether the mass movement is still on or the wind has been knocked… October 17, 2020 In "Perspective"