Suzuki by CFAO Motors Nigeria has entered a partnership with Nilayo Sports Management Limted, organisers of the Great Abeokuta 10KM Race as the official automobile partner of the race.  Bukola Olopade, the Managing Director of Nilayo Sports Management Limited, organisers of the race said on Monday in Lagos, that: “We are proud to welcome Suzuki on board as official automobile partner of the Great Abeokuta 10Km Race. “We pride ourselves on building lasting relationships across all our races and we look forward to doing the same with Suzuki.  This collaboration will greatly reinforce the validity of sports sponsorships and its connection with successful brands. “This also demonstrates the love Suzuki has for Ogun state and Abeokuta which is fast becoming the sporting hub of Nigeria. We are really excited about this partnership.”  The race, greatly supported by Ogun State government, and going to its second edition is slated for November 13, 2021. The race is duly certified by the Association of International Marathons and Distance Races (AIMS) and World Athletics (WA).  The Organisers of the Okpekpe International 10km Road Race have congratulated Mr. Olaniran Olayinka on his elevation as the new Managing Director/CEO of Keystone Bank. As part of its reorganization process, Keystone Bank Limited (former Bank PHB), has announced the appointment of Olayinka as its new Managing Director/CEO. In a… June 25, 2020 In "Sports" The Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufai, and the chairman of the steering committee of the Kaduna Marathon, Jimi Lawal, will on Saturday (today) in Kaduna brief the world on the forthcoming Marathon tagged “Kaduna Runs”. It would be recalled that the Kaduna State government recently appointed Nigeria’s leading sports marketing… September 19, 2020 In "Sports" It was all smiles for the duo of Oyelade Sunday and Vera Yohanna Davou as they were officially handed their Kia Rio saloon cars having emerged winners in the 10km male and female races during the 2020 Access Bank Lagos City Marathon. Davou, a 13-year-old JSS three pupil of the… July 29, 2020 In "Sports"