  The Nigeria Football Federation has been accused of considering colour of skin in the appointment of the Super Falcons coach. The NFF on Monday announced the signing of American Randy Waldrum as coach of the African champions. Former handler of the team Edwin Okon said there are indigenous coaches who are as qualified as the America expatriate but the Nigerian football authorities chose to pick a foreigner over the local tacticians because they prefer somebody with a white skin.  “I am not the NFF has made the right call,” Okon who was also an applicant for the job said. “It is like we prefer somebody with white skin to those of us with black skin. I know that we have very good coaches in Nigeria who understand the game here and who are emninetly qualified to handle our senior national team.  “It is the choice of the NFF to hand the foreigner the job, but the question we need to ask is that if the coach is that good, he would have been offered the opportunity to manage the national team of his country.” Meanwhile, Waldrum says he’s delighted to be appointed as the new Head coach of the Super Falcons of Nigeria.  The former Trinidad and Tobago omen team boss took to his social media handle to acknowledge the role. He wrote: “Very excited to head up the #NigerianWomensNationalTeam and look forward to working with this amazing team! Gives me a chance to reconnect with some of the players I know!  Big thanks to Pitt for allowing me the flexibility to work with them! #SuperFalcons.” The 64-year-old succeeds Thomas Dennerby who left his position as the head coach of the team a year ago, after unresolved disagreements with the NFF.   Super Falcons star, Ngozi Okobi, has described exinternational, Florence Omagbemi, as the best candidate for the vacant national team position.   With the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) looking for a capable replacement for the last coach of the country's female national team,   Thomas Dennerby, Okobi has said Omagbemi should… July 19, 2020 In "Sports" Former Super Falcons coach Ismaila Mabo has insisted the country has enough qualified coaches who can successfully handle the national senior women team. The position of the Super Eagles coach has been vacant since former handler Thomas Dennerby quits last year and Mabo has now advised the Nigeria Football Federation… September 30, 2020 In "Sports" ...says consortium of former stars can save women team   Ajibade Olusesan Former Super Falcons Coach Khadiri Ikhana has said former players of the women national team have the capacity to tinker the team to success. The position of the head coach of the Super Falcons has been vacant since… September 9, 2020 In "Sports"