 Khloe Kardashian says she had tested positive for the coronavirus.
The reality star confirmed her previous diagnosis in a Wednesday sneak peek clip of “Keeping Up with the Kardashians.” The bedridden Kardashian spoke in the video with a hoarse voice, reports The Associated Press.
“Just found out that I do have corona,” she said in the teaser of the episode, which was filmed months ago. A teaser in September showed Kardashian being tested for the virus.
“I have been in my room,” she continued. “It’s gonna be fine, but it was really bad for a couple days.”
Kardashian said her symptoms included coughing, shaking, vomiting, headaches along with cold and hot flashes. She said she had a burning sensation while coughing.
The video clip was released a day after her sister, Kim Kardashian West, drew hefty criticism for celebrating her lavish 40th birthday vacation with a large group on a private island during the pandemic. She posted a few group photos on social media of herself with family and friends, who were all unmasked.
Kardashian West said in the post that “after 2 weeks of multiple health screens and asking everyone to quarantine, I surprised my closest inner circle with a trip to a private island.”  Kim Kardashian West has spent her 40th birthday on a private island with a large group of family and friends. The reality star is facing criticism for hosting a lavish party abroad, without social distancing or masks, in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, reports the BBC. She said… October 28, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Kris Jenner has denied allegations of sexual harassment and exposing herself after being sued by a former bodyguard. The Kardashian "momager" is alleged to have subjected the man to "unwanted and unwelcome" sexual advances while he was working in security - a claim described as "ludicrous" by her lawyer, reports Sky… October 1, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" The popular reality TV show 'Keeping Up With The Kardashians' will be going off-air in 2021 as confirmed in a statement issued by Kim Kardashian on Thursday, where the Kardashian clan say they have decided to no longer film the E! reality series. “To our amazing fans, It is with… September 12, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"