 Jürgen Klopp claimed Liverpool were “disadvantaged” by VAR once again as his side overcame a controversial penalty award and a disallowed Mohamed Salah goal to beat Sheffield United 2-1 at Anfield.
The Premier League champions moved level on points with Everton at the top of the table thanks to Roberto Firmino’s first goal of the season and Diogo Jota’s second‑half header, but had to come from behind when the VAR official, Andre Marriner, awarded Chris Wilder’s team a penalty for a tackle by Fabinho on Oli McBurnie.
Mike Dean had awarded a free-kick outside the area before VAR upgraded the punishment to a penalty converted by Sander Berge, reports The Guardian.
“There was no foul,” the Liverpool manager said. “It is now six games into the season and in three of them we have been on the wrong end of these kind of decisions. We are not asking for an advantage – we just don’t want to be disadvantaged. And that is the situation. The penalty gave Sheffield a proper boost. Until then they couldn’t get to us.
“Then we lost a bit of patience but we scored a goal from our best attack of the first half, scored a second goal and I don’t know any more if it is offside or not. Then we did get the second goal and Mo had an incredible chance. They had their moments too but we defended with big hearts. It has been a tough week with a lot of minutes and tough opponents, so I am really pleased.”
Chris Wilder disagreed about the spot-kick, saying: “I thought it was. I’ve been informed there might have been another couple as well. I thought their reaction to the challenge was quite telling.”
Overall the Sheffield United manager was pleased with how his team had played. “The performance was good, it had to be to come here and get an opportunity to get a result and I thought we had opportunities to get a result.
“There is lots of disappointment in our dressing room. We got on the bus believing we could get a result and we get back on the bus disappointed we haven’t got that.”  A s the latest Premier League campaign ends, we nominate some manager of the season contenders Jürgen Klopp Last season Liverpool missed out on the league title by 11.7mm, this season they won it by a country mile.   As with his Champions League success, Jürgen Klopp ensured that painful… August 2, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has been named the Premier League manager of the season. The 53-year-old German led the Reds to their first top-flight title for 30 years. They amassed 99 points, winning 32 of their 38 league games, to finish 18 points clear of Manchester City. Klopp beat Chelsea… August 15, 2020 In "Sports" Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has been named the Premier League manager of the season. The 53-year-old German led the Reds to their first top-flight title for 30 years.   They amassed 99 points, winning 32 of their 38 league games, to finish 18 points clear of Manchester City. Klopp beat… August 16, 2020 In "Sports"