The South West caucus in the Senate has condemned the use of brute force on the #EndSARS protesters.  The caucus also condemned wanton destruction of public and private property by hoodlums, and said such constitute bastardisation of the cause of genuine #EndSARS peaceful protesters.  In a communiqué at the end of their meeting, the 17 elected Senators from the six South West states however recognised the right of citizens to ventilate their grievances by way of peaceful protests.  They noted the 5-point demands of the genuine #EndSARS protesters, stating that with their colleagues in the Senate, have passed these demands to the Federal Executive for implementation.  “We urge the #End- SARS protesters to exercise restraints to enable the government implement their demands,” the caucus members stated.  They regretted that the destruction of public and private property would aggravate “the massive infrastructure deficit and precarious financial situation of the country. “We deprecate unequivocally the use of brute force against peaceful protesters in the country.   The Senate, yesterday, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently address the nation on the on-going #End- SARS nationwide protest, with a view to ending the agitations. The Senate passed this resolution following its consideration of a motion entitled: "EndSARS and the need for a comprehensive and holistic reform of the… October 21, 2020 In "News" Govt not behind attack –Commissioner Demonstrators barricade National Assembly FCTA bans streets protests in Abuja Lawyers, students, artists join protests in Delta, Edo, Ebonyi Again, violence erupted in Lagos yesterday as armed thugs unleashed mayhem on the 'End SARS' protesters. The attack occurred at Alausa, the seat of the Lagos… October 16, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...hold Jumat prayer, candlelight vigil, share food, drinks Activities were grounded in parts of Benin, the Edo State capital as two persons were feared dead during a violent clash between pro and anti- End$ARS protesters in the state. Similarly, one of the protesters of #EndSARS in Akure, the Ondo State… October 17, 2020 In "News"