Former U-23 assistant coach, Fidelis Ilechukwu, has thrown his weight behind Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr’s decision to blacklist homebased players from the team that prosecuted the friendly game against Algeria on Friday and the next game against Tunisia scheduled for Tuesday in Austria.  Speaking during a radio programme in Lagos monitored by our correspondent, the former MFM coach said no  body should fault the coach for not inviting players playing back at home to the team because the league has been on break for over six months.  “The decision is acceptable at the mo-ment, 100 percent,” he said. “If the league is on, we can say we need to have one or two players in the team, but with what we are facing at the moment, then, you cannot blame the coach.  “Apart from (Ilechukwu) Ezenwa, who has been a constant factor in the national team, I look forward to seeing some other players in the team, we have players that can break into that team and start as well.  “Right now, the coach made the right decision by ignoring the home-based players because they have not been playing for a very long time and nobody will want to play a rusty player.”  Ikenna Hillary was part of the first Nigerian team that qualified for the African Nations Championships (CHAN) in 2014 after missing out of the previous two editions. The Sunshine Stars of Akure midfielder told CHARLES OGUNDIYA that Nigeria players who are playing outside the country find it difficult to return… August 15, 2020 In "Sports" Former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ndubuisi Egbo, became the first Nigerian and African coach to win a league title in Europe after leading KF Tirana to the Albanian top division title. Speaking during an interview on a sports WhatsApp group, NSM Rebranded, and monitored by CHARLES OGUNDIYA, the former Julius Berger… July 25, 2020 In "Sports" Retired Shooting Stars defender, Nojeem Raji, in an interview with CHARLES OGUNDIYA said playing on artificial turf caused the injury that ended his career abruptly. Excerpts… What are you into at the moment after your retirement? I recently enrolled at the NIS as I am looking forward to starting my… September 5, 2020 In "Sports"