…Cautions Makinde against overrating himself Sola Adeyemo, Ibadan A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin (Solan), on Saturday congratulated the Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) on his second term victory, urging him to consolidate on the developmental strides that earned him the October 10, 2020 re-election triumph.
According to Lanlehin, Akeredolu: “Had gracefully endured a torrid, hectic and charged campaign, like the gentleman and refined politician that he is”, while enjoining opposition parties in Ondo State not to look in the direction of the PDP ahead of the election when it became evident the umbrella party badly needed a coalition, reminiscent of the Makinde example, to coast home to victory.
While congratulating Governor Akeredolu, the APC and the good people of Ondo State, Lanlehin urged the Ondo governor to utilize the fresh opportunity which earned him the monicker “Talk and Do”, despite the plethora of hurdles mounted his way, within and without.
Lanlehin, thereafter used the window of felicitation to caution the Oyo State Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde, against overrating himself politically, saying that: “Engr. Makinde’s larger- than-life disposition and deployment of enormous political arsenal in the just-concluded Ondo poll is clearly uncalled for, and amounts to overstretching one’s luck, despite his limited political experience, public service pedigree and personal integrity.”  Wale Elegbede reports on the role played by Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in the Ondo State governorship election which the All Progressives Congress (APC) won   The 2020 Ondo State governorship election produced smiles and tears, losers and winners, heroes and villains as well as additional feathers to the… October 13, 2020 In "Politics" Former Governor of Abia State and Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Kalu, has described achievements of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu as remarkable and historic. Speaking ahead of the October 10 gubernatorial election in Ondo State, Kalu stressed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) flag bearer would come out victorious in the… October 9, 2020 In "News" Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has commended the people of Ondo State for sustaining their support for Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and the All Progressives Congress (APC).   Kalu urged the governor to maintain his all-inclusive and participatory approach to governance.  … October 12, 2020 In "News"