 The Chief Of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, is presently holding a meeting with Principal Staff Officers and top army commanders on the security situation in the country.
The meeting which is being held at the Army Headquarters in Abuja commenced at about 10.20am.
In attendance were the General Officers Commanding of all the divisions of the Nigerian Army, commanders of the various army operations, unit commanders, commander, Guards Brigade, and other top officers.
The parley is against the backdrop of the violence and vandalism in parts of the country.
The nation has been gripped by violence in the past one week with suspected hoodlums attacking and vandalising public and private property.
Others have embarked on the looting of warehouses where COVID-19 palliatives have been kept.
The homes and property of individuals, including banks, shopping malls and small stores were similarly looted.
A number of elected office holders, including a House of Representatives member in Lagos, a Senator in Ibadan and two in Cross River have had their properties ransacked and in some cases even burnt by mobs.  T he Nigerian Army has begun a "major reorganization" of its operational strategies, in a bid to deal with the worsening security challenges in the country, especially in the North, where suspected terrorists, bandits as well as kidnappers, have continued to wage a bloodletting campaign against the state.  … June 23, 2020 In "News" The controversy trailing the performance and elongated tenure of the Service Chiefs of the Nigeria Armed Forces has refused to abate as the Presidency remains unperturbed about making any changes. In this interview, a security strategist and former Director, Legal Services of the Nigeria Army, Brig. Gen. Idada Ikponmwen (rtd)… August 23, 2020 In "Sunday Magazine" The Chief of Army Staff (CAOS), Lt. General Tukur Buratai, on Wednesday said dialogue is not a military option for tackling banditry, kidnapping and other heinous crimes currently bedevilling the North-west region. He described the peace accord between the North-west governors and the marauding bandits as purely political and… July 1, 2020 In "News"