Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, has said that he and the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, were irrevocably committed to the unity of the country. The SGF, who presented a speech on Osinbajo’s behalf ahead of the nation’s 60th anniversary at a church service in Abuja, last Sunday, had quoted the vice president as saying that the nation’s wall have cracked and at the verge of collapse if not well managed. This comment had attracted condemnations in certain quarters as some described it as alarming, particularly coming from such a high government official. In response to the criticisms, the SGF, in a statement he personally signed described them as “apparent sensationalization”. Mustapha said: “The Vice President and I remain very firmly and irrevocably committed to the ideal of one indivisible Nigerian nation. “I have observed with concern the apparent sensationalization of the remarks I made at the 60th Independence Anniversary Church Service, where I stood in for His Excellency, the Vice President. “For the avoidance of doubt, I want to affirm that His Excellency, the Vice President and I remain very firmly and irrevocably committed to the ideal of one indivisible Nigerian nation. “We are also deeply appreciative of President Muhammadu Buhari’s consistent efforts to strengthen the unity of the Nigerian nation. “Any suggestion to the contrary is a clear misrepresentation of our common position as a government.”   Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has predicted that Nigeria was doomed to break-up if urgent and collective actions were not taken to mend the visible cracks on its walls, threatening to give way.   Osinbajo, who spoke at the 60th Independence Anniversary interdenominational church service held at the National… September 28, 2020 In "News" ...inaugurates boards for three commissions Due to the shortfall in the nation's revenue caused by the fall in the price of crude at the international market, the Federal Government has charged the newly inaugurated board of the Revenue Mobilization, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) to mobilize funds from non-oil sectors… July 3, 2020 In "News" Worried by the rising cost of food items and other commodities in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, summoned the National Food Security Council meeting in the Presidential Villa. The Council consists six governors representing the six geo-political zones of the country, ministers and other top government officials. The upsurge… September 11, 2020 In "News"