  Do you desire to truly experience an amazing life of abundant success? Do you see yourself being successful above all odds?  The book, You Too Can Become A Success, by Mama Helen Oritsejafor, glaringly unveils the secrets to experiencing a fulfilling life of unlimited success.  The author, Oritsejafor, provides the readers with the facts that basking in the euphoria of everlasting success requires a success-based mindset, commitment to remain focused on the goal and persistently work hard, while steadfastly working virtuously with God.  The book is set to be launched this Saturday, 10th of October, 2020, immediately after the online quarterly masterclass of the 6th edition of the CEOs Company Mentorship Class, tagged: Overcoming the Effects of COVID- 19 on Business.  The mentorship class mentored by the author, aims to help corporate heads of organizations and business owners on plausible routes to regenerate their business and organizations while staying relevant amidst the competition and remaining afloat   Bishop Joseph Ayeni’s book titled “100 Spiritual Tablets”, is a very attractive potpourri of 100 Bible study series which he classifies as tablets. It is a guide for different churches and personal devotional study that proffers remedy to myriads of problems facing mankind. The 211-page book is a bilingual scriptural… July 8, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Jamil Mohammed Abubakar is also known as Capt. Jamyl is an aircraft pilot with over a decade of experience to his name. He is better known for his aviation mentorship program and an NGO that caters for the health, education, and alleviation of the less privileged in communities all around… August 31, 2020 In "News" Book title: The Last Flight: A Personal Journey to Rediscovering Values Author:  Dapo Akande Publisher:  Ceenai Multimedia Ltd, Gbagada, Lagos Year of publication: 2017 Pages: 160 Reviewer: Maureen Ihonor       “T he Last Flight” is a book that touches on many cogent issues bedeviling the Nigerian society. It… August 12, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments"