 Leicester defender Caglar Soyuncu has been ruled out for up to three months with an abductor tear.
The 24-year-old suffered the injury while away on international duty with Turkey and subsequently missed Leicester’s 1-0 defeat to Aston Villa on Sunday, reports Sky Sports.
Soyuncu had a scan over the weekend which revealed the extent of the injury and confirmed Leicester’s worst fears.
Leicester are already missing key midfielder Wilfred Ndidi for a similar length of time, while striker Jamie Vardy sat out the Villa game with a calf problem. They did, however, hand new signing Wesley Fofana a debut following his move from St Etienne.
Manager Brendan Rodgers said: “The muscle is right off the bone so he could be out for three months which is an absolute shame for him and a big miss for us.”
Soyuncu’s injury setback will see the centre-back miss the beginning of Leicester’s Europa League campaign, which is scheduled to commence when the Foxes face Ukrainian side Zorya Luhansk on October 22.
Domestically, Leicester, who have won three of their opening five Premier League matches, will face a trip to Arsenal on Sunday, October 25, at 7.15pm.  Ross Barkley drilled in an injury-time strike to maintain Aston Villa's 100% start to the season as they edged to victory at Leicester. The game looked set to be the first goalless match of the campaign, but on-loan Chelsea midfielder Barkley finished incisively into the bottom corner to give… October 18, 2020 In "Sports" *Wins for Spurs, Wolves, Aston Villa Bournemouth came from behind to thrash 10-man Leicester City and boost their hopes of avoiding relegation from the Premier League. In a calamitous two minutes, the Foxes threw away a 1-0 lead as Junior Stanislas scored from the spot, Dominic Solanke put the hosts… July 12, 2020 In "Sports" *Wins for Spurs, Wolves, Aston Villa Bournemouth came from behind to thrash 10-man Leicester City and boost their hopes of avoiding relegation from the Premier League. In a calamitous two minutes, the Foxes threw away a 1-0 lead as Junior Stanislas scored from the spot, Dominic Solanke put the hosts… July 13, 2020 In "Sports"