Super Eagles assistant captain, Williams Troost-Ekong, continues to put in the hard work for Watford as the championship side secured a 1-1 draw against Bournemouth in a game played on Saturday.  After making his debut in the victory over Blackburn Rovers on Wednesday, the former Udinese defender was impressive in the heart of the defence of the Vicarage Road outfit.  The Nigeria international was afforded his second appearance for the Hornets against Jason Tindall’s men and delivered a solid defensive showing.  Both sides wasted a number of scoring chances and with the game looking to end in the way of Vladimir Ivic’s men, Chris Mepham scored a late equalizer to ensure the match ended all square.  Troost-Ekong made one crucial block, won one aerial contest and made four clearances in his effort to help his side keep a clean sheet. The 27-year-old centre-back, who played for the entirety of the game, also had 28 touches on the ball and had a 75% successful pass rate in the encounter.  The draw ensured Watford are third on the Championship table after gathering 14 points from seven games.  Donald Trump and Joe Biden’s first debate in the U.S. presidential election set a bad example for my children – let alone Nigerian democracy.   If nothing else, the debate – described as “a national humiliation” and “an hour and a half of insults” – proved that we Nigerians do… October 6, 2020 In "Opinion" Relegated Bournemouth have accepted a £40 million bid from Manchester City for defender Nathan Ake. It is understood there is an additional £1 million in add-ons as part of the deal. Netherlands international Ake, 25, joined Bournemouth in 2017 for a club record fee and has made 121 appearances for… July 30, 2020 In "Sports" ...as late drama leaves Cherries on brink after Saints' loss Tottenham boosted their chances of Europa League football next season and inflicted a huge blow on Leicester's Champions League ambitions with a superb performance. Brendan Rodgers' Leicester side have been in the Premier League's top four for much of the… July 19, 2020 In "Sports"