Liverpool could be without Naby Keita for the Merseyside derby against Everton on Saturday after it was reported he had tested positive for COVID- 19.  The reports came from Guinean journalist Amadou Makadji, who says that Keita has now returned a positive test for the virus.  Four other Guinea players are also said to have tested positive following Sunday’s match with Cape Verde. If proven correct, Keita will be forced to undergo a two-week period of isolation.  As a result, the midfielder will miss the Saturday lunchtime date with Carlo Ancelotti’s table-topping Toffees. Keita will join Thiago Alcantara, Sadio Mane and Xherdan Shaqiri to have contracted the virus in recent weeks.  The most recent of these, Swiss star Shaqiri, was recently given the all-clear after a second test. News of Keita’s loss will further hamper Klopp’s plans for the derby game.  The Reds are already without goalkeeper Alisson Becker for the game; the Brazilian is sidelined with a shoulder injury. Klopp also admitted before the latest round of internationals that he feared his plans would be further complicated by COVID- 19.   The raging COVID-19 pandemic has proved itself to be a social leveller. Since it touched the Nigerian soil in February, the pandemic has shown that it is no respecter of status, position, affluence and political power. WALE ELEGBEDE writes on state governors and their spouses already infected No doubt, the… July 8, 2020 In "Politics" Liverpool forward Sadio Mane has tested positive for coronavirus and is self-isolating. The news comes three days after the club said midfielder Thiago Alcantara had tested positive for Covid-19, reports the BBC. Liverpool say the Senegal winger has "displayed minor symptoms of the virus but feels in good health… October 2, 2020 In "Sports" Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi has tested positive for coronavirus. The governor broke the news in a statement he personally signed on Saturday. The statement said the result of the test conducted by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) came back positive. Some aides of Umahi also… July 4, 2020 In "Top Stories"