The reality TV show, MTN Y’ello Star, is set to make a difference in the music industry as it seeks to produce more stars. The MTN Y’ello Star project aims to nurture talents and establish wellrounded individuals who will take the world by storm  and debunk the theories of TV talent competition not producing stars.  From vocal training and music composition to distribution, marketing and the business of entertainment, taken by instructors from the Berklee College of Music, USA and the Henley Business School, UK, the show is setting new pace in the industry.  One major criticism of TV talent competitions has been that “Reality shows look for good TV moments – not talent”. All’s fair in TV, and that’s why producers look for the juiciest television opportunities, not the most talented artists.  Analysts believe that they manipulate the results of the show to generate the highest ratings by heightening the drama and appeal of reality competitions, and their main focus isn’t on creating a singing superstar.  The year 2020 has seen the rise of a new generation music talent discovery platform, Y’ello Star, by MTN. The project aims to produce a Reality TV music sensation that can compete on a global level by building the capacity of all individuals that make it into the competition.  Over the years, there’s been a decline of TV talent competitions in Nigeria, largely because they have failed to produce winners who are household names, with doubts creeping in from organizers who become unsure if winners can make it in the music industry.  Back in its prime during the late 2000s, Project Fame was incredibly popular, churning out overnight sensations and memorable hits. The show’s ratings peaked in the early part of the 2010s as former contestants like Iyanya, Praiz, Chidinma and Niniola soared to the top of the music charts in the country.  Quizzed by show host, Ebuka Obi- Uchendu about how he feels just few minutes after he was announced winner of the fifth season of the Big Brother Naija reality TV Show, Laycon said: “I just came here to promote my music.” It seems like a sentiment driven by the ecstasy… October 3, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Between the 80s, 90s and now, the Nigerian entertainment industry has witnessed a radical shift in the prevalence of kid talents, from actors, comedians to musicians. Gone are the days when smarty kids will leave your womb in awe with the breathtaking talent they display on Television. There was Peter… August 22, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" After a few years of missing in action in the music scene Nigeria’s super talented singer, Dare Art Alade is back with a new tune. In this interview with Ifeoma Ononye, he speaks about discovering the deepest part of his music skill during the pandemic and what inspired his new… September 13, 2020 In "Body & Soul"