 The Commissioner of Police, Osun State Police Command, Undie Adie has condemned the violent attack on the person/convoy of the Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, while addressing End SARS protesters.
Oyetola had apologised to the youths for coming late to address them since the beginning of the protest.
The governor said he was out of the state but had returned about an hour ago to join them in solidarity.
The protesters, infiltrated by hoodlums, armed with dangerous weapons such as stones, clubs, cutlasses, guns, etc, attacked the governor, his entourage and vehicular convoy.
The Police Commissioner revealed that Oyetola, with the help of the police escort attached to him, was whisked back to Government House at Oke-fia without harm.
He added: “Information at the disposal of the command indicates that two persons are reported to have died in the pandemonium.”
Adie appealed to members of the public to remain calm and law-abiding as efforts were ongoing to restore normalcy.  * Deputy Governor shot at There was an attempt Saturday on the life of the Governor of Osun State, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola. Armed with guns, cutlasses, axes hoodlums swooped on the governor at Olaiya junction, while he was addressing the #EndSARS protesters in the state capital. Governor Oyetola had joined… October 17, 2020 In "News" There was an attempt Saturday on the life of the Governor of the State of Osun, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola. Armed with guns, cutlasses, axes hoodlums swooped on the Governor at Olaiya junction, while he was addressing the #EndSARS protesters at the state capital.   Governor Oyetola had joined protesters in… October 18, 2020 In "News" •Disrupt Obasanjo's Owu Day festival •Oyetola, NANS appeal for caution A bystander was shot and killed in Ogbomoso in Oyo State, southwest Nigeria, on Saturday by the policemen dispersing #EndSARS protesters. It was unclear if Jimoh Isiaq was among the young Nigerians protesting against police brutality before he was shot.… October 11, 2020 In "News"