Former Super Eagles and PSG defender, Godwin Okpara, has slammed Manchester United and manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer for the lack of respect shown to the person of Odion Ighalo in recent times.  Okpara said the disrespect shown to the former Super Eagles player is a disrespect to all Africans as a whole. “Ighalo came into the club at a very difficult time and was able to help the team get the needed goals in matches he was called upon,” Okpara said.  “A foreigner, European or a Brazilian won’t be treated the way he is currently being treated.” Despite the presence of Ighalo, United snapped Edison Cavani up on a free transfer on deadline day, tying him down to a one-season contract with the option of an extra year.  The Uruguayan has 341 career goals to his name to date, 200 of which were scored during his time at Parc des Princes, and he’s also hit 51 in 116 appearances for his country at the international level.  PSG’s all-time record goalscorer will now be charged with helping the Red Devils bounce back from a poor start to the season while providing high-quality competition in the final third for Greenwood, Anthony Martial, Odion Ighalo, and Marcus Rashford.  Adeolu Johnson ABUJA Nigerian striker Odion Ighalo has been described as one of the quality players in the Manchester United squad by Bruno Fernandes. Ighalo and Fernandes have been impressive for the Red Devils since they arrived at Old Trafford in the winter of 2020.   Ighalo became the first… July 14, 2020 In "Sports" Erstwhile Super Eagles striker Odion Ighalo has retained his starting position as Manchester United take on LASK in a Europa Cup round of 16 clash at Old Trafford today. Ighalo ended the 2019-2020 season without opening his goalscoring account for Manchester United in the English Premier League mainly due to… August 5, 2020 In "Sports" Odion Ighalo has been nominated for the best striker award in the 2019/20 English FA Cup which was won by Premier League side Arsenal beating Chelsea in the final at Wembley.   The Nigerian footballer has been impressive since he joined Manchester United last year on loan from Chinese Super… August 17, 2020 In "Sports"