 Nigerian music stars Burna Boy and Rema have both clinched nominations for the 2020 MTV EMA.
The two singers will be vying for the award of the Best African Act alongside stars from other African countries.
Other African singers in the category include Master KG, Kabza de Small and DJ Maphorisa (South Africa), Sheebah (Uganda), Gaz Mawete (the Democratic Republic of The Congo.
Burna Boy took home the award for Best African Act at the 2019 edition of the MTV EMA.
In his reaction to his nomination, the Grammy-nominated star wrote:
“A big thank you to my MTV family for nominating me again for this award and to my fans all over the world for listening to and supporting my music.“
For this year’s nomination, multiple award-winning American musician Lady Gaga leads the pack with seven nominations which include “Best Artist,” “Best Pop,” and “Best Video” for her duet with Ariana Grande, “Rain On Me,” which also secured her a position in the “Best Song” and “Best Collaboration” categories.
Asian music group, BTS and Justin Bieber each received five nods, within categories including “Biggest Fans” and “Best Pop.”
The award categories also saw the addition of three new categories: “Best Latin,” “Video for Good” and “Best Virtual Live.”
The “Best Local Act” category returns, with nominations including Lady Gaga, Megan Thee Stallion, and Cardi B for “Best US Act,” Justin Bieber, and The Weeknd for “Best Canadian Act” and Dua Lipa for “Best UK & Ireland Act,” and more.
Monde Twala, Senior Vice President and General Manager of ViacomCBS Networks Africa, said
“The 2020 MTV EMAs is one of the biggest entertainment stages in the world and this year’s African nominees are undoubtedly making their presence felt globally. This affirms our commitment to ensuring that we continue to celebrate our diverse talent on international platforms. Congratulations to all our African nominees on this achievement.”
The 2020 edition of the award ceremony marks the 27th year of one of music’s biggest award night.
Marking the 27th edition of one of the biggest nights in global music.
The two-hour 2020 MTV EMAs will air globally on MTV in 180 countries on Sunday, November 8, 2020.  The 29-year-old reaches his highest position so far on the Artists 500 Chart with the release of his fifth studio album, Twice as Tall One of the defining musical trends of the last decade has been the growing influence of international artists in the U.S. Cross-continental collaborations are now routine,… August 26, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Exciting young DJ and producer Cuppy, also known as “Princess of Afrobeats”, has unveiled her hotly anticipated debut album, ‘Original Copy’, which is generating positive reviews, and is a contender for the album of the year. We can now crown Cuppy as “Princess of Afrobeats”. Many years in the making,… August 29, 2020 In "Arts & Entertainments" Nigerian music diva, Tiwa Savage, is guest this week on African Voices Changemakeres, a Globacom- sponsored magazine programme of the Cable News Network (CNN).   The programme will also feature Gambian Kora great, Sona Jobarteh. Tiwa began her music career doing backup vocals for artistes as George Michael and Mary… September 13, 2020 In "News"