…four police stations razed   Six people died yesterday when protesters continued the End SARS protest in major cities in Anambra State.  Also four police stations were burnt when the protesters engaged policemen who were trying to protect police formations in the state.  The burnt police formations are Ogidi Police Station, 33 Police Station and two police stations in Nnewi. From Nkpor Junction to Upper Iweka there were bonfires as well as attacks on commercial vehicles who refused to join the protest.  Onitsha Main Market as well as markets at Nkpor, Nkwo Nnewi, Bridge Head, Ekwulobia and Awka main markets were shut down by the protesters.  In Awka, the Onitsha-Enugu Expressway was deserted as shops were closed for fear of attacks by the angry youth. At the Ogidi Police Station, a policeman was allegedly killed while attempting to stop the protesters who claimed that four of their members were shot dead by the police.  The four protesters were reportedly shot dead during a shootout with the police.  #EndSARS protesters across Anambra State, on Thursday, went berserk, when they attacked police formations across the state, where they freed suspects, burnt and looted the police stations.   In Nnewi, the industrial hub of the state, protesters, who converged to observe what they called candle light procession in the night… October 22, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" ...says four officers murdered 11 stations, 20 police vehicles, APC burnt Officers and men of the Nigeria Police in Anambra State yesterday raised the alarm over threats to their lives as fall out of the #EndSARS protests. The state Police Commissioner, Mr. John Abang, who addressed journalists, said the lives… October 29, 2020 In "Metro & Crime" •Onitsha youths foil burning of Zik’s statue     At least six more police stations in Anambra came under attack of hoodlums under the guise of Endsars protesters who brandished dangerous weapons as they invaded the areas.   This is coming as youths in Onitsha foiled the burning of the… October 25, 2020 In "News"